      TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares and the euro fell to seven-week lows on Friday as European officials failed to soothe investor fears that the euro zone's debt crisis could trigger a credit crunch if funding costs run out of control. MSCI's broadest index of Asia Pacific shares outside Japan slid 1.4 percent on Friday, hitting a seven-week low. Japan's Nikkei inched up 0.1 percent after touching a fresh two-and-a-half-year low earlier on Friday. European shares fell for the sixth consecutive session in low volume on Thursday while Wall Street was shut for the Thanksgiving holiday. ...     
       STRASBOURG, France (Reuters) - France and Germany agreed on Thursday to stop arguing in public over whether the European Central Bank should do more to rescue the euro zone from a deepening sovereign debt crisis. President Nicolas Sarkozy and Chancellor Angela Merkel said after talks with Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti that they trusted the independent central bank and would not touch its inflation-fighting mandate when they propose changes of the European Union's treaty to achieve closer fiscal union. ...     
       TOKYO (Reuters) - The ex-CEO of Japan's disgraced Olympus Corp held what he called a constructive meeting on Friday with the directors who had sacked him, and said all hoped the firm could avoid being delisted over the accounting scandal engulfing it. Briton Michael Woodford, still an Olympus director despite being fired as CEO a month ago and blowing the whistle over the scandal, had made a rock-star entrance to the meeting, pushing past TV crews on his first trip back to Japan since his sacking. ...     
       LONDON/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - AT&T said it would take a $4 billion charge in case its takeover of T-Mobile USA fails, a tacit recognition of the dwindling chances that the deal will get through U.S. regulators who say it would destroy jobs and curb competition. The U.S. telecommunications group and T-Mobile owner Deutsche Telekom, said they would continue to pursue anti-trust approval for the $39 billion takeover from the U.S. Department of Justice, but withdrew applications to the industry regulator, for now at least. ...     
       LONDON (Reuters) - European shares fell for the sixth consecutive session in low volume on Thursday after German Chancellor Angela Merkel restated her position against changing the role of the European Central Bank to ease the euro zone debt crisis. The market trimmed gains after the comments by Merkel about the ECB as well as remarks that she remained opposed to the use of jointly issued euro bonds to combat the region's debt crisis. ...     
       CANBERRA (Reuters) - Australia's government approved on Friday SABMiller's A$11.5 billion ($11.2 billion) deal to acquire Foster's Group Ltd under foreign acquisitions laws, but imposed conditions requiring the company to keep brewing operations in Australia. The government approval is the final regulatory condition to be cleared ahead of the Foster's shareholders vote set for December 1, which is expected to pass the deal. ...     
       LISBON (Reuters) - Fitch downgraded Portugal's credit rating to junk status on Thursday, citing large fiscal imbalances, high debts and the risks to its EU-mandated austerity program from a worsening economic outlook. The ratings agency cut Portugal to BB+ from BBB-, which is still one notch higher than Moody's rating of Ba2. S&P still rates Portugal investment grade. Fitch said a deepening recession makes it "much more challenging" for the government to cut the budget deficit but it still expects fiscal goals to be met both this year and next. ...     
   (Reuters) - U.S. lawmakers plan to look into the relationship between bankrupt mid-size brokerage firm MF Global Holdings Ltd's former CEO Jon Corzine and the major credit-rating agencies, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter. MF Global's credit ratings were cut to junk in the days before its October 31 bankruptcy. A U.S. congressional subcommittee plans a December 15 hearing with regulators and top MF Global officials to review the firm's collapse. ...   
       MONTREAL (Reuters) - A Canadian consortium aiming to buy the operator of the country's largest exchanges said the C$3.8 billion deal would likely win regulatory approval, its hopes boosted by a first day of hearings on Thursday. In an appearance before regulators in the French-speaking province of Quebec, Maple Group defended its proposal to buy TMX Group against criticism it would create a monopoly and squash competition. Maple is comprised of 13 of Canada's most powerful financial institutions. "There was nothing there that was troubling for us, they were completely understandable questions. ...     
       NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India threw open its $450 billion retail market to global supermarket giants on Thursday, approving its biggest reform in years that may boost sorely needed investment in Asia's third-largest economy. The world's largest retail group, Wal-Mart Stores Inc , and its rivals see India's retail sector as one of the last frontier markets, where a burgeoning middle-class still shops at local, family-owned merchants. ...     
   Deutsche Telekom and AT&T vowed Thursday to press ahead with the planned sale of the German company's T-Mobile USA unit to the U.S. cell phone operator despite concerns raised by American authorities.   
   Libya's oil production is quickly increasing and now stands at more than 600,000 barrels a day, a prominent Libyan oil expert said Thursday.   
   Afghan president Hamid Karzai on Thursday condemned the killing of six children and an adult in the southern part of the country that local officials blame on a NATO airstrike.   
        Portugal's efforts to climb out of its economic crisis suffered a double setback Thursday as its credit rating was downgraded to junk status and a major strike gave voice to broad public outrage over austerity measures that have squeezed living standards.     
   India's Cabinet decided Thursday to allow more direct foreign investment in the nation's huge retail industry, a move that could strengthen the country's food supply chain and open India to giant global retailers such as Wal-Mart.   
        With winter fast approaching, the bailiffs of Budapest are in a race against the clock.     
        Writer J.K. Rowling and actress Sienna Miller gave a London courtroom a vivid picture on Thursday of the anxiety, anger and fear produced by living in the glare of Britain's tabloid media, describing how press intrusion made them feel like prisoners in their own homes.     
        Germany deflected calls for the European Central Bank to play a bigger role in solving Europe's debt crisis but won the backing of France and Italy to unite the troubled 17-nation eurozone more closely.     
        Almost two years after an earthquake devastated Haiti, less than half of the $4.6 billion in pledged aid has been disbursed and political squabbling is threatening to bring coordinated reconstruction efforts to an abrupt halt.     
        Europe's major stock markets resumed their long losing streak Thursday after German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissed calls for the European Central Bank to play a bigger role in resolving the debt crisis that's threatening the 17-country eurozone.     
       TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares and the euro fell to seven-week lows on Friday as European officials failed to soothe investor fears that the euro zone's debt crisis could trigger a credit crunch if funding costs run out of control. MSCI's broadest index of Asia Pacific shares outside Japan slid 1.4 percent on Friday, hitting a seven-week low. Japan's Nikkei inched up 0.1 percent after touching a fresh two-and-a-half-year low earlier on Friday. European shares fell for the sixth consecutive session in low volume on Thursday while Wall Street was shut for the Thanksgiving holiday. ...     
   Former Australian senator Bill O'Chee says Rupert Murdoch's eldest son Lachlan was present at a lunch when a News Corp. executive allegedly offered O'Chee favorable newspaper coverage and "a special relationship" in return for voting against government legislation.   
   Asian stock markets were mostly lower Friday as the results of a meeting among leaders of Europe's biggest economies disappointed investors and Portugal's credit rating was lowered to junk.   
   The government says Japan's core consumer price index, which excludes fresh foods, dipped 0.1 percent in October from a year earlier. That's the first decline in four months.   
   India's Cabinet decided Thursday to allow more foreign direct investment in the nation's huge retail industry, a move that could strengthen the country's food supply chain and open India to giant global retailers.   
   Some 120,000 property tax statements will go into the mail on Friday, Cleveland County treasurer Jim Reynolds said.   
   Thousands of Peruvians have protested a $4.8 billion open-pit gold mining project they fear will damage their water supply.   
   (Reuters) - U.S. lawmakers plan to look into the relationship between bankrupt mid-size brokerage firm MF Global Holdings Ltd's former CEO Jon Corzine and the major credit-rating agencies, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter. MF Global's credit ratings were cut to junk in the days before its October 31 bankruptcy. A U.S. congressional subcommittee plans a December 15 hearing with regulators and top MF Global officials to review the firm's collapse. ...   
       Australia's government on Friday approved brewer SABMiller's Aus$9.9 billion (US$9.62 billion) takeover of Foster's, on condition that management operations remain in the country.     
   TOKYO (Reuters) - Former Olympus Corp CEO Michael Woodford said on Thursday he would not be surprised if there was "some criminality involved" in an accounting scandal at the company, as speculation persists of a link between dubious M&A deals and organized crime. Woodford also told an audience of business executives in Tokyo that he had a "dream team" at Olympus he could employ to run the company if he returned as chief executive. Olympus fired Woodford as CEO on October 14, saying he did not understand Japanese culture. Woodford said his dismissal was due to questioning dubious M&A payments. ...   
   Five of our Forbes' best-performing newsletter editors provide their best single idea for today's challenging market.   
       CANBERRA (Reuters) - Australia's government approved on Friday SABMiller's A$11.5 billion ($11.2 billion) deal to acquire Foster's Group Ltd under foreign acquisitions laws, but imposed conditions requiring the company to keep brewing operations in Australia. The government approval is the final regulatory condition to be cleared ahead of the Foster's shareholders vote set for December 1, which is expected to pass the deal. ...     
   Deutsche Telekom and AT&T vowed Thursday to press ahead with the planned sale of the German company's T-Mobile USA unit to the U.S. cell phone operator despite concerns raised by American authorities.   
   A researcher at the University of Missouri's flagship campus in Columbia has found that turkeys don't need as much protein as they're getting and that adopting his feeding plan could save the industry $100 million.   
       “When they find out how to burn water, And the gasoline car is gone. When an airplane flies without any fuel, And the sunlight heats our home. One of these days when the air clears up, And the sun comes shinin’ through. We’ll all be drinkin’ free bubble-up, An’ eatin’ that rainbow stew.” -- Merle Haggard: Rainbow [...]     
       TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index fell to a seven-week low on Thursday as resource-related issues slid after a meeting of European leaders failed to stem market fears about the euro zone debt crisis. Energy and materials were the main drags on the index, each falling nearly 1 percent, as oil and gas producers and gold miners were hit by fears of a slowdown in Europe. Enbridge Inc fell 2.8 percent to C$35.11 and Barrick Gold slumped 1.4 percent to C$49.55 to lead their respective sector's losses. ...     
   TORONTO (Reuters) - Market turbulence won't likely dissuade a wave of Canadian merger and acquisition activity in coming months as private equity funds deploy piles of cash for new investments and seek buyers for their mature assets. Strategic buyers might stimulate further dealmaking as boards and CEOs come under pressure to spend billions in capital saved since the 2008-09 economic crisis and face limited alternatives for organic growth. A lot of dealmaking could occur between the funds themselves, in what is known as sponsor-to-sponsor activity. ...   
   Chinese officials signed $6 billion in new loans to Venezuela on Thursday aiming to boost the South American country's oil industry.   
   TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar ticked higher against the greenback on Thursday in holiday-thinned trade but didn't stray far from the seven-week low it hit the day before on fears the euro zone crisis was spreading to Germany. A meeting of the leaders of Germany, France and Italy on Thursday failed to provide relief from the jolt that rattled the market on Wednesday when a weak German government bond auction fueled fears that even the safe-haven status of Europe's biggest economy could be under threat. ...   
   Three oil rich countries of the Persian Gulf have set up a $2.5 billion sovereign investment fund to support Morocco's tourism sector.   
   Asian stock markets were mostly lower Friday as the results of a meeting among leaders of Europe's biggest economies disappointed investors and Portugal's credit rating was lowered to junk.   
   LONDON (Reuters) - Sub-Saharan African countries that invest in training doctors have ended up losing $2 billion as the expert clinicians leave home to find work in more prosperous developed nations, researchers said on Friday. A study by Canadian scientists found that South Africa and Zimbabwe suffer the worst economic losses due to doctors emigrating, while Australia, Canada, Britain and the United States benefit the most from recruiting doctors trained abroad. ...   
       LONDON (Reuters) - Britain will spend up to 1 billion pounds on employment subsidies and other support to help young people into work as youth unemployment hits record levels, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said on Friday. More than one million young people aged 16-24 are out of work in Britain, official data showed last week, with companies holding back from hiring as the economy threatens to tip back into recession after barely growing over the past 12 months. ...     
   TORONTO (Reuters) - Market turbulence won't likely dissuade a wave of Canadian merger and acquisition activity in coming months as private equity funds deploy piles of cash for new investments and seek buyers for their mature assets. Strategic buyers might stimulate further dealmaking as boards and CEOs come under pressure to spend billions in capital saved since the 2008-09 economic crisis and face limited alternatives for organic growth. A lot of dealmaking could occur between the funds themselves, in what is known as sponsor-to-sponsor activity. ...   
   TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar ticked higher against the greenback on Thursday in holiday-thinned trade but didn't stray far from the seven-week low it hit the day before on fears the euro zone crisis was spreading to Germany. A meeting of the leaders of Germany, France and Italy on Thursday failed to provide relief from the jolt that rattled the market on Wednesday when a weak German government bond auction fueled fears that even the safe-haven status of Europe's biggest economy could be under threat. ...   
       NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India threw open its $450 billion retail market to global supermarket giants on Thursday, approving its biggest reform in years that may boost sorely needed investment in Asia's third-largest economy. The world's largest retail group, Wal-Mart Stores Inc , and its rivals see India's retail sector as one of the last frontier markets, where a burgeoning middle-class still shops at local, family-owned merchants. ...     
       OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canada's statistics agency will end its long-running practice of releasing key employment and inflation data at 7 a.m. (1200 GMT) as of April - to the great relief of journalists and economists from coast to coast. Starting next April, Statistics Canada will move the release time of monthly data on jobless numbers and inflation to 8:30 a.m., an official said on Thursday. The change means that all economic data from the federal agency will now be released at 8:30 a.m. ...     
       (Reuters) - The holiday shopping season is in full swing on Thursday, with retailers hoping consumers will spend big despite worries about the fragile economy and their own precarious finances. The shopping period has been underway for some time as retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc and Toys R Us started early by offering layaway programs. But shoppers are looking for major bargains and retail executives are predicting a more competitive season than 2010. An Old Navy store in Watchung, New Jersey, was teeming with shoppers on Thursday morning, while a line outside a Best Buy in Union, N.J. ...     
   The uncertainty surrounding the Boeing Co.'s plans for its Wichita defense facility will reverse two or three months of economic progress and recovery, according to an expert at Wichita State University.   
        Portugal's efforts to climb out of its economic crisis suffered a double setback Thursday as its credit rating was downgraded to junk status and a major strike gave voice to broad public outrage over austerity measures that have squeezed living standards.     
   LONDON (Reuters) - Weak demand at a German debt auction suggests investors are starting to shun even the euro zone's strongest economy, which could trigger more losses in the shared currency as many shift from euro-denominated assets to safe havens outside the region. As Italian, Spanish and even French yield spreads have blown out to record levels in recent weeks, the trend has been for portfolio flows to switch into German Bunds, resulting in no foreign exchange outflows from the euro zone. ...   
       BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Wednesday's failed bond auction in Germany may mark the moment the penny dropped for Berlin. That, at least, is the hope of some of its European partners. While Greece, Ireland and Portugal have had to suffer the ignominy of taking bailouts from the EU and IMF, and Spain, Italy and France are now firmly in the firing line, Europe's most powerful economy has remained above the fray. ...     
   LONDON (Reuters)- From credit bottlenecks in eastern Europe to slower growth in China, delays in tackling the euro zone's debt crisis are causing ever-greater economic and financial damage well beyond the borders of the 17-nation bloc. As politicians dither over how to share the costs of cleaning up the mess and preventing a recurrence, concern is mounting among policy advisers and academics that Europe could be condemned to several years of sluggish growth as excess debts are gradually worked off. And wrangling over how to pay for decades of debt accumulation is not limited to Europe. ...   
       European stock markets closed mostly lower Thursday, slipping back from a modest technical rebound made as a strong survey of German business confidence helped sentiment amid the eurozone debt gloom.     
        Europe's major stock markets resumed their long losing streak Thursday after German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissed calls for the European Central Bank to play a bigger role in resolving the debt crisis that's threatening the 17-country eurozone.     
       NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India threw open its $450 billion retail market to global supermarket giants on Thursday, approving its biggest reform in years that may boost sorely needed investment in Asia's third-largest economy. The world's largest retail group, Wal-Mart Stores Inc , and its rivals see India's retail sector as one of the last frontier markets, where a burgeoning middle-class still shops at local, family-owned merchants. ...     
   (Reuters) - Here are some facts about Morocco, which is holding parliamentary elections on November 25. *THE ECONOMY: -- Morocco's economic growth probably slowed to an annual rate of 4.1 percent in the third quarter, below the country's full-year target, after a slowdown in mining and tourism, the planning authority said at the beginning of November. -- The central bank last month said hotel and restaurant activity recorded a 3.8 percent drop in the second quarter, its worst quarterly performance since the first quarter of 2009. ...   
       HARARE (Reuters) - Zimbabwe's economy is likely to continue its strong recovery next year from a decade of decline to expand by 9.4 percent, Finance Minister Tendai Biti said on Thursday, but a hike in mining royalties could impede growth. Biti said in a budget speech that agriculture and mining would be the main drivers of growth in the economy, which is projected to expand by 9.3 percent this year. ...     
       LISBON (Reuters) - Fitch downgraded Portugal's credit rating to junk status on Thursday, citing large fiscal imbalances, high debts and the risks to its EU-mandated austerity program from a worsening economic outlook. The ratings agency cut Portugal to BB+ from BBB-, which is still one notch higher than Moody's rating of Ba2. S&P still rates Portugal investment grade. Fitch said a deepening recession makes it "much more challenging" for the government to cut the budget deficit but it still expects fiscal goals to be met both this year and next. ...     
       Taiwan's economy grew a slower-than-expected 3.42 percent in the July-September period as overseas demand weakens and private investment shrinks.     
   DUBAI (Reuters) - After months of evasion, procrastination and defiance, Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh had one more surprise up his sleeve: he signed a Gulf accord which, on paper at least, stripped him of his powers. Yemenis now turn to just how the deal will be implemented to secure the dismantling of the rule of the 69-year-old whose iron grip enmeshed his family, friends and allies in the nation's military, business and economy. ...   
   TOKYO (Reuters) - One Tokyo Christmas tree has a special glow even amid the global economic gloom -- it's made of pure gold, and valued at $2 million. A jewelry store in Tokyo's posh Ginza district teamed up with flower arrangement artist Shogo Kariyazaki to create the lavish Golden Christmas Tree. Twelve kg (26 lb) of gold were used to make the 2.4 meter (8 foot) tree, which is adorned with ribbons, hearts and orchids, also made of gold. ...   
       DUBAI (Reuters) - After months of evasion, procrastination and defiance, Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh had one more surprise up his sleeve: he signed a Gulf accord which, on paper at least, stripped him of his powers. Yemenis now turn to just how the deal will be implemented to secure the dismantling of the rule of the 69-year-old whose iron grip enmeshed his family, friends and allies in the nation's military, business and economy. ...     
       TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar recovered slightly against its U.S. counterpart on Thursday as investors took profits on the sharp U.S. dollar rally in the previous session on fears the euro zone crisis was spreading to Germany. The Canadian dollar also skidded to a seven-week low against the U.S. currency on Wednesday after a weak German bond auction rang alarm bells about Europe's biggest economy. "(Short covering) was the core story across a lot of currency pairs through Asia and through the London session this morning that we saw profit taking generally on the big (U.S. ...     
       LONDON (Reuters) - German government bond yields hit their highest in nearly a month and world stocks held near 7-week lows Thursday, a day after a weak debt sale in Berlin fanned fears the euro zone debt crisis is starting to threaten its biggest > falling 115 ticks on the day to 134.66, the lowest since October 31. Ten-year German government bond yields rose as high as 2.14 percent compared with economy. ...     
       TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares and the euro fell to seven-week lows on Friday as European officials failed to soothe investor fears that the euro zone's debt crisis could trigger a credit crunch if funding costs run out of control. MSCI's broadest index of Asia Pacific shares outside Japan slid 1.4 percent on Friday, hitting a seven-week low. Japan's Nikkei inched up 0.1 percent after touching a fresh two-and-a-half-year low earlier on Friday. European shares fell for the sixth consecutive session in low volume on Thursday while Wall Street was shut for the Thanksgiving holiday. ...     
   (Reuters) - U.S. lawmakers plan to look into the relationship between bankrupt mid-size brokerage firm MF Global Holdings Ltd's former CEO Jon Corzine and the major credit-rating agencies, The Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing a person familiar with the matter. MF Global's credit ratings were cut to junk in the days before its October 31 bankruptcy. A U.S. congressional subcommittee plans a December 15 hearing with regulators and top MF Global officials to review the firm's collapse. ...   
       ABUJA (Reuters) - Nigeria's stock index reached its lowest level in almost eight years on Thursday, Reuters data showed, as persistent global risk aversion keeps money out of frontier equities. The all-share index hit an intra-day low of 19,961.18 points, the lowest since December 24, 2003. Traders said funds have been moving out of Nigerian equity markets and into fixed income, where yields have improved on the back of a series of central bank interest rate hikes this year. "The negative sentiment has largely muted any sort of attractive valuations in the market ... ...     
   Ratings agency Standard & Poor's on Thursday pushed Egypt's sovereign credit ratings deeper into junk status, citing the country's dire political and economic situation and the increased risk of civil strife.   
       LONDON (Reuters) - Standard & Poor's lowered Egypt's credit rating on Thursday, saying the political and economic outlook had deteriorated following violence that has killed 39 people in five days. S&P said it had cut the country's foreign and local currency rating to B+ from BB- with a negative outlook. It affirmed the B short-term rating. "The downgrade reflects our opinion that Egypt's weak political and economic profile...has deteriorated further," the agency said in a statement. ...     
   The New York Police Department's commissioner on Wednesday sent an internal message to officers ordering them not to unreasonably interfere with media access during news coverage and warning those who do will be subject to disciplinary action, after several journalists were arrested covering Occupy Wall Street demonstrations last week.   
       NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks suffered a sixth straight day of losses on Wednesday as frustration over the euro zone's debt crisis, coupled with weak Chinese factory data, further dented investor sentiment. A weak German bond sale sparked fears the debt crisis was even beginning to threaten Berlin, with the leaders of France and Germany still at odds over a longer-term structural solution. The poor demand for German government bonds showed that investors viewed investing in the euro zone as being too risky. ...     
   A look at the 10 biggest volume gainers on New York Stock Exchange at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest volume decliners on New York Stock Exchange at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest percentage decliners on New York Stock Exchange at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest volume decliners on Nasdaq at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest volume gainers on Nasdaq at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest percentage gainers on New York Stock Exchange at the close of trading:   
   A look at Nasdaq 10 most-active stocks at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest percentage decliners on Nasdaq at the close of trading:   
   A look at the 10 biggest percentage gainers on Nasdaq at the close of trading:   
       Fear that Europe's debt crisis is infecting Germany, the strongest economy in the region, sent stocks reeling Wednesday.     
   Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market:   
       NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks suffered a sixth straight day of losses on Wednesday as frustration over the euro zone's debt crisis, coupled with weak Chinese factory data, further dented investor sentiment. A weak German bond sale sparked fears the debt crisis was even beginning to threaten Berlin, with the leaders of France and Germany still at odds over a longer-term structural solution. The poor demand for German government bonds showed that investors viewed investing in the euro zone as being too risky. ...     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on November 16, CF Industries Holdings Inc's Director, Robert G. Kuhbach, invested $42,251.07 into 250 shares of CF, for a cost per share of $169.00. Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on August 5, Tupperware Brands Corp's Director, Bob Marbut, invested $287,581.72 into 5,058 shares of TUP, for a cost per share of $56.86. [...]     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on August 19, First Financial Bancorp 's Director, Knapke Murph, invested $184,258.00 into 12,500 shares of FFBC, for a cost per share of $14.74. Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on September 26, Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd.'s Group Controller, George Anthony Carbonar, invested $167,348.00 into 10,000 shares of MRH, for a cost per share of $16.73. Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on August 18, Sonus Networks, Inc.'s Director, Scott E. Schubert, invested $11,400.00 into 5,000 shares of SONS, for a cost per share of [...]     
       There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy. Back on September 14, Hyatt Hotels Corp's Director, Byron D. Trott, invested $653,000.00 into 20,000 shares of H, for a cost per share of $32.65. Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.     
   Ryanair's chief executive Michael O'Leary says Greece's tourism earnings will skyrocket if it drops out of the eurozone and reverts to a devalued version of its pre-2002 drachma currency.   
       TAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwan's HTC Corp cut its revenue forecast for the fourth quarter to no growth over the same period a year earlier from around 20 percent to 30 percent year on year growth previously, surprising the market and sending its shares tumbling 7 percent. The world's No.4 smartphone maker has been facing a slowdown in shipment growth in the second half of this year after growth more than doubled in the first half, as competition from bigger rival such as Apple Inc and Samsung intensifies and the global economy weakens. ...     
   Mallika Srinivasan, India's tractor queen, looks overseas to drive earnings at TAFE.   
       Assuming that recent history repeats itself, investors could see strong upside when publicly-traded industrial equipment and systems manufacturers announce fourth quarter earnings early next year. What specific industrial equities stand to benefit the most?     
       LONDON (Reuters) - The typical annual salary in Britain fell 2.1 percent in real terms in the year to April compared to the previous 12 months as pay rises failed to keep up with inflation, official data showed on Wednesday. Median annual earnings for full-time workers rose 1.4 percent to 26,200 pounds in the tax year ending on April 5, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said in its annual survey of hours and earnings. By contrast, the average rate of consumer price inflation in the year between April 2010 and March 2011 stood at 3.5 percent. ...     
       In its latest earnings release, Deere's management noted strong growth will come from Asia and Canada in 2012, with European and Latin American sales expected to be flat.     
       (Reuters) - Deere & Co reported a 46 percent rise in quarterly earnings and projected "substantial growth" for 2012 amid strong global farming conditions and higher prices, sending its shares higher in an otherwise weak stock market. The world's largest farm machinery maker said hefty incomes of the world's farmers -- driving record 2011 results -- are expected to be stable in 2012. Demand for agricultural commodities, such as grain, will remain high. The company solidly outpaced analyst expectations in the fourth quarter as agricultural and turf equipment sales were stronger than expected. ...     
       (Reuters) - Shares of Pandora Media fell more than 10 percent on Wednesday after the online streaming music service company gave a muted fourth-quarter outlook. The company posted higher-than-expected third-quarter earnings and revenue after the market closed on Tuesday. Investors shrugged off that news and focused on broader concerns about the company's growth potential, given a flock of competitors as well as executives' remarks about fourth-quarter revenue. ...     
       Hibbett Sports recently reported an impressive 16% earnings surprise, pushing shares to a new all-time high.     
   Heavy equipment manufacturer Deere & Co. (DE) reported a gain in fiscal fourth quarter earnings [...]   
   Pandora Media (P) reported third quarter earnings late yesterday, the company’s first quarterly earnings announcement since its initial public offering. The internet radio company said it swung to a profit of $638,000, or breakeven per share, compared to a loss of $1.7 million, or $0.15 per share, in last year’s third [...]   
       JOHANNESBURG, NOV 23 - South African packaging manufacturer Nampak fell short of expectations with a 15 percent rise in full-year profit on Wednesday, hampered by slightly lower revenue in its home market. Nampak, which operates in 13 African countries, said diluted headline earnings per share totalled 170.1 cents in the year to end-September, compared with 147.7 cents a year earlier. A survey of six analysts had expected headline EPS, the main measure of profit in South Africa, to come in at 174.2 cents. Nampak shares were down 0. ...     
       JOHANNESBURG, NOV 23 - South African petrochemicals group Sasol expected sharply higher earnings for the six months to the end of December on higher oil prices, a weaker rand and improved operational performances, the group said on Wednesday. Sasol shares extended gains in late morning trade to be 1.60 percent higher, outperforming the Top-40 blue-chip index which was about one percent lower. ...     
       HARARE (Reuters) - Retail group OK Zimbabwe reported a 1,167 percent jump in first-half earnings, spurred by growing demand as the country's economy continued to recover from a decade-long slump. OK Zimbabwe's basic earnings per share was 0.38 cents in the six months to end-September, compared to 0.03 cents in the same period last year, financial results released by the company on Wednesday showed. After-tax profit was $3.9 million in the first half of the year, up from $322,000 registered during the same period of 2010. Revenue grew 61 percent to $185.6 million from $115 million previously. ...     
       JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - South African consumer goods firm Tiger Brands Ltd posted a 13 percent increase in full-year earnings on Wednesday, helped by higher sales but said it anticipates a tough trading environment ahead. The maker of bread, breakfast cereal and energy drinks said headline earnings per share for the year to the end of September totalled 1,575 cents from 1,393 cents last year. Headline earnings are the main profit gauge in South Africa and exclude certain one-time and non-trading items. Revenue rose 5.8 percent 20.4 billion rand. ...     
       JOHANNESBURG, NOV 23 - South Africa's Illovo Sugar Ltd posted a 12 percent rise in first-half earnings on Wednesday helped by currency weakness and cost cutting but said output was still struggling to recover from a 2010 drought in KwaZulu-Natal province. Illovo, a unit of Associated British Foods, said diluted headline earnings per share for the six months to end-September totalled 62.9 cents compared with 56.2 cents in last year's sugar season. Headline earnings are the main profit gauge in South Africa and exclude certain one-time and non trading items. ...     
       SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Hewlett Packard's new Chief Executive, Meg Whitman, passed her first test with investors, calming nerves and assuring Wall Street that the technology giant will be disciplined with its investments and focused on core operational improvements. But she faces an uphill task in completely winning over the hearts and wallets of investors, who cut their 2012 outlook after HP posted a 91 percent drop in quarterly earnings on weak computer and printer sales. ...     
   Here is a summary of recent earnings reports for selected entertainment companies:   
        Medtronic Inc., the world's largest medical device maker, reported higher-than-expected earnings Tuesday as sales of newer devices helped make up for an ongoing slump in its best-selling heart and spine implants.     
   Internet radio company Pandora Media Inc. posted a thin third-quarter profit Tuesday as it reported earnings as a public company for the first time. But its outlook for the current quarter was weaker than expected and its shares fell in extended trading.   
       Pandora posted quarterly earnings that met analysts' expectations, but its stock dropped in after-hours trading. Pandora reported revenue of $75 million in the quarter ending in October, up 99% from the year-ago period and beating analysts estimates of $71.4 million. On a sequential basis that's up from $67 million in the [...]     
   Bank earnings rose over the summer to their highest level in more than four years, while the number of troubled banks fell for the second straight quarter, federal regulators reported Tuesday.   
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. bank earnings reached a more than four-year high in the third quarter, but regulators are warning that the industry faces challenges that include the risk of the European debt crisis washing up on U.S. shores. Martin Gruenberg, acting chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, said on Tuesday that U.S. banks have limited direct exposure to Europe, but there is a risk of "contagion" if the situation gets worse. ...   
   Also, Hewlett-Packard reports fiscal fourth quarter earnings and the stock drops by 2.5%.   
   Here is a summary of recent earnings and reports for selected technology companies and what they reveal about the state of spending and the overall economy:   
   The average rate on the 30-year fixed mortgage hovered above its record low for a fourth straight week. But cheap mortgage rates have done little to boost home sales or refinancing.   
        The average rate on the 30-year mortgage hovered above the record low for a third straight week. But cheap mortgage rates have done little to boost home sales or refinancing.     
        The average rate on the 30-year mortgage stayed hovered above the record low for a third straight week. But cheap mortgage rates have done little to boost home sales or refinancing.     
       As part of her MoneyZen series, women and money expert Manisha Thakor highlights every day personal finance lessons that can be extracted from Jo Piazza's new book Celebrity, Inc.     
       Mortgage rates are at record lows, yet many home buyers are shunning loans. Do they know something you don't?     
       With housing prices and mortgage rates still near historic lows, now could be a great time to become a homeowner. I recently talked to a caller on our Financial Helpline who had a great credit score and could afford the mortgage payment for the home value she wanted since it [...]     
   Chances are that your pension or 401k plan has never been audited. Do you find that fact disturbing? It should freak you out, in my opinion. According to regulators, seventy percent of the nation's pensions have never been unaudited. No one's checking annually to see if the money's really there.   
       It’s hard to admit to yourself that the smarts and know-how you bring to your work or business doesn’t automatically carry over to your wallet or your 401k.     
        Against the backdrop of a growing student loan crisis, and increasing demands from #Occupy Wall Street and President Obama for student loan forgiveness, Kiplinger’s Personal Finance just announced its annual "Best Values" in private post-secondary education. Kiplinger's named the private universities and liberal arts colleges that combine outstanding quality with [...]     
   Today's record-low mortgage rates are out of reach for millions of U.S. homeowners who would benefit from them most.   
   NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York Federal Reserve President William Dudley said on Monday the central bank could potentially do more to support the housing market by putting downward pressure on mortgage rates.   
   Mortgage rates have fallen to their lowest levels ever, making this a golden opportunity to refinance.   
   Mortgage rates have skated near record lows for weeks. But now it can finally be said: Long-term rates in the United States have never been lower.   
        Fixed mortgage rates have fallen to historic new lows for a fourth straight week and are likely to fall further.     
       WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Pending sales of existing U.S. homes fell less than expected in August despite rock-bottom mortgage rates, underscoring the difficulties policymakers face in helping the struggling housing sector.     
       NEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week, reflecting a jump in demand for home loan refinancing as mortgage rates dropped, an industry group said on Wednesday.     
       WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Sales and prices of new single-family U.S. homes fell in August despite historically low mortgage rates, underscoring the difficulties policymakers face in efforts to boost the moribund housing sector.     
   Fixed mortgage rates hovered at record lows for a third straight week. They are likely to fall even further now that the Federal Reserve said it would shuffle its holdings to drive down long-term interest rates.   
   Fixed mortgage rates fell to the lowest level in six decades for the second straight week. But few Americans can take advantage of the historically low rates.   
        Mortgage rates have reached their lowest levels in six decades, making this the best time in most Americans' lives to buy or refinance a home. For people who qualify, today's rates could save thousands of dollars a year.     
   NEW LOWS: Fixed mortgage rates fell this week to the lowest levels in six decades. The average rate for a 30-year loan hit 4.12 percent; the 15-year loan fell to 3.33 percent.   
        Fixed mortgage rates fell this week to the lowest levels in six decades. But few Americans can take advantage of the rates to refinance or buy a home.     
   Fixed mortgage rates fell this week to the lowest levels in six decades. But few Americans can take advantage of the rates to refinance or buy a home.   
       NEW YORK (Reuters) - Demand for U.S. home loans fell for a third straight week last week although mortgage rates fell to or near record lows, an industry group said on Wednesday.     
       One of the most frequent questions in today's housing market is "should I buy or should I rent?" Such a question is subject to the condition of the housing market you're shopping in, unemployment, foreclosure environment, mortgage rates and so much more. But, believe it or not, even in this recession-strung economy, some people are still able to afford multi-million dollar homes, which spawned the question of whether the same rent vs. buy conundrum applied to someone who is able to spend five figures each month for a roof over their head. ...     
   Some 120,000 property tax statements will go into the mail on Friday, Cleveland County treasurer Jim Reynolds said.   
   ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek riot police detained a union leader and 14 other activists on Thursday during a protest against a property tax, the first such arrests since the formation of a national unity government to stave off bankruptcy. Dozens of members of the GENOP labor union clashed with around 80 riot police outside an office of Greece's biggest power producer PPC in an Athens suburb. The company is charged with collecting the property tax via electricity bills. "We will not back down in our struggle. This fight is about the whole of Greek society. ...   
       Enjoy your sales tax free Internet shopping while you can. The tax collectors are closing in on the Web.     
   The Tennessee Valley Authority has paid $530 million in tax equivalent payments in fiscal year 2011 to states and local governments where it sells electricity or has power properties.   
        The head of British tennis says he is hopeful that a change in tax laws will stop international sports stars from turning their backs on competing in Britain.     
   BRUSSELS/LONDON (Reuters) - European countries should end tax breaks such as those for company cars, rather than raising income tax when seeking to plug budget holes without stunting growth, a top EU official said on Wednesday. Algirdas Semeta, the European commissioner in charge of tax issues, also joined German Chancellor Angela Merkel in making a renewed push for a financial transaction tax, an idea that faces stiff opposition from Britain and stands little hope of being adopted globally. "The quality of taxation will determine whether we sink or swim," Semeta told a news briefing. ...   
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Kenneth Kies sizes up the chances of reforming the convoluted U.S. tax code like someone who has lived through it before. In fact, he has. Major tax change in Washington, he says, still awaits the right moment, and it will take longer than the few months that were allotted to the failed "super committee." A tax lobbyist who counts General Electric Co and Microsoft Corp among his clients, Kies got his start in the tax world in 1975 as a law student working in Congress while it debated what became the Tax Reform Act of 1976. ...   
       Opposition to an unpopular property tax imposed to help secure bankruptcy-saving EU loans gathered pace in Greece on Wednesday ahead of a new general strike called by unions against austerity cuts.     
       (Reuters) - The trustee seeking money for victims of imprisoned swindler Bernard Madoff has reached an agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to recover $326 million that was earlier transferred to the agency by Madoff's firm purportedly on behalf of foreign account holders, court documents showed. The settlement money will eventually be distributed to Madoff's customers who have valid claims, according to the court filing. ...     
       Australia's controversial tax on the country's mining industry, seen by Canberra as a critical economic reform, cleared a key hurdle Wednesday when it passed through the lower house of parliament.     
        Congress' failed deficit-cutting supercommittee has faded away, but the pressure on lawmakers to quickly confront a stack of expensive economic issues is only growing.     
        President Barack Obama dashed into politically important New Hampshire Tuesday, seeking to steal the spotlight from Republican presidential candidates and challenging GOP lawmakers back in Washington to stand by their anti-tax pledges on one big measure.     
   A tax cut that reaches 160 million Americans and government aid for the long-term unemployed will expire at the end of the year — sucking $165 billion out of the economy next year — unless Congress takes action.   
        President Barack Obama sought to steal the spotlight from Republican presidential candidates Tuesday, challenging opposition lawmakers back in Washington to stand by their anti-tax pledges on one big measure.     
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Bonus season could come early this year for employees who are paid on commissions, payroll servicers said on Tuesday, if Congress fails to extend the Obama administration's payroll tax cuts beyond 2011. Businesses are considering paying fourth-quarter or year-end bonuses in December that typically go out in January. This would enable employees to take advantage of the payroll tax cut that expires on December 31 if Congress does not act. President Barack Obama urged Congress on Tuesday to vote next week to extend the payroll tax cuts. ...   
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Bonus season could come early this year for employees who are paid on commissions, payroll servicers said on Tuesday, if Congress fails to extend the Obama administration's payroll tax cuts beyond 2011. Businesses are considering paying fourth-quarter or year-end bonuses in December that typically go out in January. This would enable employees to take advantage of the payroll tax cut that expires on December 31 if Congress does not act. President Barack Obama urged Congress on Tuesday to vote next week to extend the payroll tax cuts. ...   
   A tax cut that reaches 160 million Americans and government aid for the long-term unemployed will expire at the end of the year — and suck $165 billion out of the economy next year — unless Congress takes action.   
   The Australian government's plan to place a new 30 percent tax on big mining companies whose profits are booming largely due to Chinese demand passed a major hurdle Wednesday when legislation was narrowly endorsed by a parliamentary vote.   
       MANCHESTER, New Hampshire (Reuters) - President Barack Obama challenged the U.S. Congress on Tuesday to vote next week to save an expiring payroll tax cut, a day after a high-profile effort to tackle huge U.S. deficits collapsed in acrimony. A new Reuters/Ipsos poll showing that Americans blamed Obama in part for the "super committee" failure underscored the challenges he faces to persuade voters he is the still the best steward of the economy. ...     
        President Barack Obama dashed into politically important New Hampshire Tuesday, seeking to steal the spotlight from Republican presidential candidates and challenging GOP lawmakers back in Washington to stand by their anti-tax pledges on one big measure.     
        President Barack Obama sought to steal the spotlight from Republican presidential candidates Tuesday challenging opposition lawmakers back in Washington to stand by their anti-tax pledges on one big measure.     
   A Republican state senator said Tuesday he plans to introduce a bill in the Alabama Legislature that would over a four-year period end the 4 percent state sales tax on groceries while raising the sales tax on most other items.   
   Jack Daniel's officials are toasting the defeat of a proposal to tax whiskey at its celebrated Tennessee distillery.   
        President Barack Obama warned Tuesday a failure to extend a payroll tax break would hurt middle-class families, effectively daring congressional Republicans to increase taxes a year before the presidential election.     
        Confronting Republicans, President Barack Obama on Tuesday dashed into the home of the nation's first presidential primary, urging GOP lawmakers to support a payroll tax cut next week and stand by their own pledges not to increase taxes.     
   MANCHESTER, New Hampshire (Reuters) - President Barack Obama said on Tuesday U.S. lawmakers would have a chance to vote again next week to extend a payroll tax cut which, he said, would hurt the economy and employment if it were not extended into 2012. "In the spirit of Thanksgiving, we are going to give them another chance," Obama said, referring to lawmakers in Congress and Thursday's U.S. Thanksgiving holiday. "Next week they are going to get to take a simple vote. If they vote no again the typical family's taxes will go up $1,000 next year. ...   
       Targeting Republicans in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail, President Barack Obama is heading to New Hampshire, a political battleground, to begin a year-end push to extend payroll tax cuts.     
        A long-running war between Democrats and Republicans over Bush-era tax cuts doomed the debt supercommittee's chances of reaching a deal. Efforts to overhaul the tax code may await the same fate as both parties gear up to make taxes a central issue in the 2012 elections.     
       Looking today at week-over-week shares outstanding changes among the universe of ETFs covered at ETF Channel, one standout is the WisdomTree Emerging Markets Equity Income Fund     
   Ireland's leaders have begun three days of meetings to devise euro3.8 billion ($5.1 billion) more in spending cuts and tax hikes for their debt-struck country.   
   The Australian government said Tuesday it is confident it will get sufficient support to enact a new 30 percent tax on mining companies whose profits are booming largely due to Chinese demand.   
   A proposal to tax barrels of Jack Daniel whiskey was derailed Monday evening before it could reach the Tennessee Legislature.   
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Financial markets are worried that a congressional committee's failure to seal a deficit reduction deal sets the stage for a partisan year-end battle over extending some expiring tax breaks they view as helpful to U.S. economic growth. President Barack Obama wants Congress to extend a temporary payroll tax break and a number of other expiring tax breaks and to continue support payments for the unemployed. Congress also must act if it wants to avert a 30 percent Medicare healthcare program pay cut to doctors. Q. Will Congress just allow these to expire? A. ...   
        There is no place in the U.S. more expensive to smoke than New York City, where the taxes alone will set you back $5.85 per pack. Yet, addicts who visit Island Smokes, a "roll-your-own" cigarette shop in Chinatown, can walk out with an entire 10-pack carton for under $40, thanks to a yawning tax loophole that officials in several states are now trying to close.     
   President Barack Obama will sign into law Monday legislation giving tax breaks to companies that hire unemployed veterans.   
   WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Whatever happens to the Congress' deficit-fighting "super committee," world markets are increasingly concerned about several temporary tax breaks vital to the economy that are set to expire at year-end. One is the Obama administration's payroll tax cut. Another is a "patch" to prevent the alternative minimum tax (AMT) from hitting middle-class taxpayers. Still others include deductions for state and local sales tax and for college tuition. Corporations are anxious about business credits expiring on December 31, such as one for research and development. ...   
        Protesting power and municipal workers blockaded several state electricity company buildings around Greece Monday, in protest at an emergency property tax being collected through electricity bills.     
   RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) - I was hoping to leave my old broken microwave behind when I leave Brazil this month, but the government is not having any of it. My moving company says because I brought it into the country when my wife and I moved here in 2009, authorities will levy a tax of almost double its original value if I leave the country without it. Whether or not it still works. Unfortunately, my movers tell me, I'm not going to escape paying that tax for the 10-year-old television that I brought with me to Rio; we gave that away last year after buying a flat-screen to watch the World Cup. ...   
       CANBERRA (Reuters) - Australia's government is set to pass laws for its 30 percent mining profits tax later this week after agreeing to lift the starting threshold and promising more scrutiny of coal seam gas projects in a deal to win support from three key independents. But the changes, which will cost about A$20 million a year in lost government revenue, have upset the Greens, whose support is needed to pass the laws, and done little to allay concerns of small and mid-tier mining companies. ...     
       CANBERRA (Reuters) - Australia's government is set to pass laws for its 30 percent mining profits tax later this week after agreeing to lift the starting threshold and promising more scrutiny of coal seam gas projects in a deal to win support from three key independents.     
   Small distribution businesses with Magento eCommerce are selecting the powerful inventory management component Unleashed Sofware to move focus from back-office tasks to frontline customer service and support. Maharasi Ayuveda recently integrated three key components, Unleashed, Magento and Xero to manage their end to end supply chain and distribution process. ...   
   The veteran investor sees more trouble ahead for the world economy, and claims he is mainly holding short positions in stock markets.Beijing, China (PRWEB) November 25, 2011 Jim Rogers, Chairman of Rogers Holdings and a famed investor, says he sees more trouble ahead for the world economy in the next few years, and is shorting shares in various markets.“I mainly short shares around the world,” says Rogers. “I have shorted American technology companies, I have shorted European stocks and shorted emerging market stocks. ...   
   LimeLife Luxury Entertainment Hosted the Private Affair Cocktail Social with Guests of Fashion Destination Group & Special Appearances of "Miss Globe" Pageant Title Holders.Dana Point, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Guests came together, enjoying great conversations as well as the surprise beauty of not just St. Regis Resort but the welcoming of Miss Globe pageant title holders. ...   
   The National Camp Series (NCS), founded by NFL Kicker Michael Husted, announced the All Region Teams for the Southeast. The All Region Teams recognize the top camp performances from the classes of 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 for the following regions: Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast, Midwest, South and West.Atlanta, GA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 The National Camp Series, founded by NFL Kicker Michael Husted, has announced the NCS All Region Team for the Southeast.The athletes named to NCS' All Region Southeast Team have been posted to the NCS website according to Husted. ...   
   New junior golf website launches in January to help shore up participation among youthful players, says golfersadvice.com.Austin, TX. (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 A new junior golf website dedicated to shoring up participation in the game will launch this January, 2012, says golfersadvice.com, a golf news and instructional destination. According to the website, which publishes a number of golf-related books and online golf travel sites, the new junior golf website is an effort stem the continued erosion in the game, especially amongyoung golfers and women. ...   
   a2zDeals.com on Black Friday: a library of over 5000 Free Coupons & Promo Codes for over 1000 major retailers; saving money on gifts, with no fees or registration required.Sacramento, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 a2zDeals.com, popular Hot Deals & Coupons site, announces a cyber source for all Black Friday ads, sales & shopping deals: a2zdeals.com, a secure, free site for browsing coupons, promo codes and free shipping deals online for over 1000 retailers; click and shop online this year instead of wasting time in lines at stores. ...   
   Exclaimer Signature Manager Launched For Microsoft Office 365 (source: Exclaimer)(PRWEB UK) 25 November 2011 Office 365 users can now centrally control everyone’s Outlook signatures from one PC, Exclaimer have announced.‘Ease is efficiency’ explains Ian McDougall, IT strategist, ‘with signatures, an update process of emailing it to everyone in the company for them to copy/paste is too costly, too tiring and too error-prone. ...   
   Intermittent Fasting is a new dieting trend more and more people are talking about. The latest evidence? An E-book by leading nutrition researcher Dr. John M. Berardi that has gone viral. It's the talk of Web fitness sites.Toronto, Ontario and New York, NY (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Precision Nutrition, the world’s leading online nutrition research and education company, today announced that its ground-breaking E-book “Experiments in Intermittent Fasting” has gone viral, with more than 176,000 unique page views since its publication six weeks ago. ...   
   Online Insurance Marketplace (http://www.OnlineInsuranceMarketPlace.com) Announced that the Company has Over 20,000 'Likes' on their Page on the Facebook® PlatformLos Angeles, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Los Angeles, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 - Online Insurance Marketplace, the premiere site to get cheap term life insurance quotes, announced today that the company has reached over 20,000 'Likes' on their page on the Facebook Platform. To be exact, 20,451 have clicked 'Like' on the Facebook Platform. ...   
   Explore Talent (http://www.exploretalent.com) Announces New Blog, "Dr. Conrad Murray to be Locked Away?"Los Angeles, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 ExploreTalent.com, a premier online social-network for industry insiders, announced a new blog on their news site today, titled "Dr. Conrad Murray to be Locked Away?" Explore Talent is a professional site that connects actors, models, musicians and dancers in the United States. The company posts blogs on their site, so that members can stay up to date on celebrity news. ...   
   Mary Craig of Saint John, New Brunswick and Linda Trenholm of Sackville, New Brunswick have each won a free tank of heating oil in Irving’s “Who Doesn’t Like Free” sweepstakes.Portsmouth, NH (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Mary Craig of Saint John, New Brunswick and Linda Trenholm of Sackville, New Brunswick have each won a free tank of heating oil in Irving’s “Who Doesn’t Like Free” sweepstakes. Ms. Craig and Ms. Trenholm were selected at random from over 40,000 entries from New England and Atlantic Canada. Ms. Craig and Ms. ...   
   Facebook and Twitter Pages Allow Customers to Ensure They Don’t Miss a Trick When It Comes to Quality Orangery and Double Glazing Products...Manchester, United Kingdom (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 With the Christmas spirit now on the high street and hats and gloves out in force, winter is well and truly upon the United Kingdom. With this in mind, Double Glazing Prices is urging British homeowners to invest in a top of the range orangery or some great double glazing in order to reduce bills dramatically. ...   
   The bestselling MyQuiz -HD app by MapsofWorld.com now features an updated database and the option to make your own quiz.San Jose, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 MapsofWorld.com, one of the leading names in maps and educational content, announced the release of its bestselling educational app MyQuiz -HD for the iPhone. Expanded and updated, the app now features the ability to create custom quizzes.Along with optimization for the iPhone platform, the quiz now has an updated and larger database. The most exciting new feature is the option to make custom quizzes. ...   
   Lori Stewart of Mount Stewart, Prince Edward Island, has won a free tank of heating oil in Irving’s “Who Doesn’t Like Free” sweepstakes.Portsmouth, NH (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Lori Stewart of Mount Stewart, Prince Edward Island, has won a free tank of heating oil in Irving’s “Who Doesn’t Like Free” sweepstakes. Ms. Stewart was selected at random from over 40,000 entries from New England and Atlantic Canada. Ms. ...   
   Knoxville, Tennessee based capital funding firm Ritch and Associates announce contract to fund Phoenix based BioNovelus through Paladin Global Investments.Knoxville, TN (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Robert Ritch, owner and CEO of Ritch and Associates, announces that the business funding firm has entered in to a contract to arrange capital for BioNovelus, a "green" Phoenix based company. The capital will be arranged through Paladin Global Investments, a private equity firm that specializes in small business venture investments approved by Ritch and Associates. ...   
   Travel company iTravel NZ has launched a free New Zealand travel app for iPhone and Android, designed to replace quickly outdated maps and guidebooks.Aukland, North Island (PRWEB) November 25, 2011 iTravel NZ is updated every day to make sure it's always up-to-the-minute. It gives information specific to your location - from where to stay (iSleep), what there is to do nearby (iDo), where to get the best food and coffee (iEat), and the best attractions that are worth looking at (iSee). ...   
   As Americans Climb out of the slow Improving Recession It is Not Only Consumers That Are Suffering. Charitable Organizations Throughout Orange County Have Seen a Dramatic Drop in Donations. Costa Mesa- Based Morgan Drexen Lends a Helping HandCosta Mesa, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Thanksgiving throughout the United States this year will be a difficult time for so many families with high unemployment and rising poverty rates. ...   
   Online retailer BathroomVanitiesforLess.com has added hundreds of new products just in time for Black Friday and Cyber Monday.The retailer now carries almost a thousand different styles of bathroom vanitiesFishkill, New York (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 A major expansion for online retailer BathroomVanitiesforLess.com comes less than a month after the site’s launch. The family-owned and operated business has added hundreds of new items, specifically for Black Friday and Cyber Monday. The expansion includes every style of ready-to-assemble and pre-assembled bathroom vanities. ...   
   Packaging machinery manufacturer, Sepha Ltd, has reported record sales of its recently extended range of non-destructive leak testing equipment for the world's pharmaceutical packaging industry. With demand up across all major markets, the company says the increase will fund future R&D and enable it to bring forward future innovations aimed at reducing costs and driving quality for pharmaceutical manufacturers and contract packers.Belfast (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Sepha exports from its base in Northern Ireland to 60 countries across the globe. ...   
   Congressman Bob Filner, former Deputy Mayor of San Diego and Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, delivers a riveting commencement address to California Miramar University MBA graduates in San Diego encouraging them to use their MBA degrees to make the world a better place by inspiring positive social change.San Diego, California (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 On Friday, California Miramar University MBA graduates were addressed by San Diego Congressman Bob Filner. Congressman Filner represents California’s 51st Congressional District here in San Diego. ...   
   FastWebHost announces Black Friday Red Hot Sale - their biggest Web Hosting , Reseller Hosting and Windows Hosting sale of 2011California, USA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Black Friday is fast approaching – that means sales, sales and more sales. To keep up with the growing demand of web hosting products, FastWebHost has announced a One day, Black Friday Red Hot web hosting sale event.This is a ONE-DAY promotion only. It is only valid on Black Friday, the 25th November 2011. Customers who are looking for cheap web hosting, will be able to sign up during the promotion period. ...   
   Online retailer RTAFlooring.com celebrates Black Friday and Cyber Monday with the addition of hundreds of new products. The expansion covers all types of flooring, including hardwood, laminate, cork, bamboo and carpets and rugs.Fishkill, New York (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 RTAFlooring.com announces that it has greatly added to its product line-up of flooring options in celebration of Black Friday and Cyber Monday. The expansion includes hundreds of new products in laminate, bamboo, cork and hardwood flooring, as well as area rugs, carpet tiles and more. ...   
   The Morocco News Agency has created an online news site to provide reporting on the November 25 elections.Rabat, Morocco (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 The Morocco News Agency was established in November 2011 in response for a national call for reforms and democracy in Morocco.The Morocco News Agency will provide both news and feature coverage of the November 25, 2011 elections. In addition to our Website, the Morocco News Agency will use social media, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to engage the public. ...   
   Online kitchen cabinet retailer TheRTAStore.com is thanking customers this holiday season with its biggest sale of the year. According to the retailer, shoppers at TheRTAStore.com have two ways to save even more money on their discount kitchen cabinets.Fishkill, New York (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 TheRTAStore.com is sharing its gearing up for Black Friday / Cyber Monday sale by offering massive discounts off of ready-to-assemble or pre-assembled kitchen cabinets this holiday season. ...   
   Getting a Cash Loan Has Never Been Better Thanks to the RedesignDetroit, Michigan (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 It may be alright to fall asleep after eating Thanksgiving turkey, but sudden financial problems need to be dealt with immediately. With that in mind, CashLoanToday.com has created the most convenient and quickest way of getting emergency cash. Customers need to be able to get all the information they need, complete the process quickly, and stay secure throughout. The redesign of the site addresses all these issues, making CashLoanToday.com the premiere payday loan portal online. ...   
   Today’s A&D industry is going through challenging times. Major airlines are struggling to be profitable, and new priorities are changing where national governments will spend their defense budgets. At the same time, A&D companies are working to change their business models. New market research report “Comparative SWOT Analysis - World's 13 Leading Defense & Aerospace Companies - Q4 2011” elaborated by Noealt Corporate Services has been recently published at Market Publishers Ltd. ...   
   The ultra-fast broadband market continues to develop swiftly in most corners of the globe, in terms of both subscriber numbers and homes passed. At the end of last year, there were close to 61 million FTTH/B subscribers around the world, which marks a more than 53% increase over the previous year. New market research study “FTTx Survey” elaborated by IDATE Consulting & Research has been recently published at Market Publishers Ltd. ...   
   A feature-rich upgrade to indeni’s market-leading security monitoring software catapults the system even farther ahead in ease of use and device coverageTel Aviv, Israel (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 indeni, the leader in security operations monitoring, today announced the release of indeni 1.11, the most recent version of the company’s advanced network security monitoring system. ...   
   Get the biggest savings of the year on GoPro HD Hero action cameras and accessories at up to 50% off from PointOfViewCameras.com. Some items selling below cost for this Black Friday blowout.(PRWEB) November 24, 2011 PointOfViewCameras.com, the largest independent online retailer of action cameras is having a massive blowout on all GoPro HD Hero hands free cameras. Up to 50% discounts on all GoPro Hero cameras and accessories will start at Thursday midnight for this Black Friday sale. ...   
   The company has reportedly obtained a premium domain name - skateboarding.com.au - which it says would be a mainstream website for the sport in the country.Sydney, Australia (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Endless Blue Inc. is going to launch a state-of-the-art website for skateboarders in Australia. The company has reportedly obtained a premium domain name - skateboarding.com.au - which it says would be a mainstream website for the sport in the country. ...   
   Hong Kong- Phillips de Pury & Company is thrilled to announce the results of its first auction in Hong Kong. The auction of an extraordinary collection of Swatch watches at the Four Seasons Hotel totaled HKD 51,707,500/USD 6,618,560 selling 100% by value and 100% by lot.The SWATCH BLUM COLLECTION which was sold as a single lot totaled HKD 51,060,000/USD 6,535,680 and was sold to a buyer from mainland China.(PRWEB UK) 24 November 2011 Hong Kong- Phillips de Pury & Company is thrilled to announce the results of its first auction in Hong Kong. ...   
   Antiagingsupplementnews.org set to release their new anti aging skincare program for 2011. There are some elements in the report that even seasoned professionals have never heard of.Chicago, IL. (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Antiagingsupplementnews.org has just announced their anti aging skincare program for 2011.Followers of the site will now be able to take advantage of all the knowledge that the site has gathered over the last year in the care of aging skin and they will be able to apply that knowledge to their own skin. ...   
   Mass tort and personal injury litigation firm Weitz & Luxenberg extends its support to former and present members of the armed forces who developed lung cancer and mesothelioma in service to America.New York City (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Weitz & Luxenberg PC, one of the leading asbestos law firms in New York City, today announced its thanks to all former and present members of the armed forces – particularly those serving abroad this Thanksgiving. ...   
   With the introduction of new tropical features to the resort’s popular Honeymoon Package the Manchebo Beach Resort & Spa is located on Aruba’s widest beach made honeymooning on Aruba even more romantic. Chocolate covered strawberries now await newlyweds upon arrival in their room served with a bottle of chilled champagne. Another new feature is the romantic dinner for two under the stars where our chef presents a tropical dinner menu which is all about love. ...   
   Company Slashing Prices on Complete Living Room Sets including HDTVs and XBox's for Extra Holiday Fun.Swansea, Massachusetts (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 New England families can expect Black Friday deals of all shapes and sizes at Cardi’s with furniture stores in MA, RI and Cape Cod. But Cardi’s Furniture, a longtime leader among mattress stores in New England, is going utterly above and beyond this Thanksgiving. ...   
   Savings Of Up to 70% Off Till Mid Day (PST) TuesdayVan Nuys, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Gamers rejoice and save big, as Sunflex USA, one of the leading video game accessory providers provides up to 70% in savings on a wide range of video gaming and PC accessories this coming Black Friday (Friday, November 25, 2011) thru Cyber Monday (Monday, November 28, 2011)! More information and incredible savings can be found at http://www.snakebyte-usa.comSunflex USA not only prides itself by offering more than just ‘me-too’ products at a cheaper price than first-party manufacturers. ...   
   Skincare Market Inc. has the lowest price nationwide guaranteed for all products including brands such as Kinerase. The 5% discount code for all orders is thanksgiving5 and this sale will only last till this Thanksgiving weekend so stock up for the holidays.Los Angeles, California (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Skincare Market Inc. is proud to present all customers with this special holiday offer. Our top leading brand Kinerase is a perfect choice for gifts. The Kinerase Ultimate Day Moisturizer is a day moisturizer for dry and mature skin used to protect the skin against sunlight. ...   
   The Business Finance Store discusses some of the things American Express has been doing to support small businesses and how to benefit from it.Santa Ana, CA (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 This Saturday, November 26th, is the second annual Small Business Saturday, promoted by American Express. The point of Small Business Saturday is to let small businesses in on a little piece of the holiday shopping pie. Through promotion, customers are encouraged to shop at small businesses on Saturday, the day after Black Friday. ...   
   The JW Marriott Orlando Grande Lakes celebrates the holiday season with a special offer and a full calendar of exciting holiday events.Orlando, FL (PRWEB) November 24, 2011 The holiday season is a time to celebrate with friends and family, to make some new memories together, and to give thanks. The JW Marriott Orlando, Grande Lakes wants to join in the celebration as well, so they have come out with their calendar of exciting holiday events, plus a brand new Orlando hotel deal sure to appeal to travelers this holiday season. ...   
   Kissinggames.com now offers an even more comprehensive and a diverse collection of flash games for free. One can find a huge variety of game categories, and all the games featured there are of high quality.(PRWEB) November 24, 2011 Kissinggames.com - the interactive online gaming website announced that they have added an exciting new set of girl games, such as love games, dressup games and cooking games. These types of games are most loved by girls especially in their teenage and Kissinggames.com is catering to just that. ...   
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  At the heart of Europe                             SIR – It is not Europe but Britain that needs to wake up to the euro crisis ( Special report on Europe and its currency , November 12th). Britain is sleepwalking into irrelevance. Britain’s national interest in relation to Europe and the wider world would be better served if it fought to create a reformed euro-currency block, and then joined it. In fact, you cannot do the one without committing to the other. Protecting London’s future as a financial centre; reforming the common agricultural policy; ensuring that Britain is at the table for future big European technology projects; broking a solution to the current crisis that might actually work; implementing the Lisbon agenda—the list of important issues for Britain goes on.Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy finally told the Greeks the hard truth: you can’t have the benefits without contributing to the main. It is in Britain’s national interest to...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  The Republican revolution?                             SIR – I agree with your characterisation of some of the Republican candidates for president as the “new Jacobins” (“ A dangerous game ”, November 5th). I would go further and suggest that the current Republican contest is more like a Robespierre sound-a-like competition than a process to determine who is electable. As an independent who leans Democratic on social issues and has mixed ideas economically I would like to see Barack Obama replaced in the White House, but not by any of the current Republican crop.The tea party has destroyed the credibility of the Republicans with its radicalism.Zachary BlakeBristol, Virginia  SIR – You wrote of a “merciless purge” carried out by tea-partiers, “Jacobins…on the warpath again” who “scalp” their political opponents. That is nonsense. The heinous crimes at issue turn out to be democratic attempts to unseat congressmen through elections. In...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Counting people                            SIR – Your coverage of global population growth missed one key point (“ Now we are seven billion ”, October 22nd) . While it is true that the world’s average family size has fallen dramatically in the past 40 years, a relatively small group of countries, including places like Afghanistan and Niger, continue to have between four and seven children on average and rapid population growth. These countries also happen to be poor, low on the Human Development Index, often treat women badly, and in some cases, like Somalia, are failed states spawning international terrorists.You asserted “family planning appears to do little directly to control the size of families.” This is incorrect. Couples in virtually all societies have frequent sex, and therefore access to family planning is necessary to separate sex from childbearing. Most experts say that family planning has been critical in reducing family size in,...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Views from the street                             SIR – In response to your weekly news summary describing the Occupy demonstrations in New York and other cities around the world as “anti-capitalist” ( The world this week , October 22nd), I would like to state that there is no official anti-capitalist sentiment within the Occupy Wall Street movement. There are people here from every imaginable walk of life, from all political parties, right as well as left, races, classes, military veterans, celebrities, homeless people, millionaires, union members, punks, anarchists, capitalists, magicians, social workers, athletes, cooks and indeed police.Capitalism, or the destruction of it as a system, is not the objective. Rooting out and holding to account the people and or entities that knowingly and wantonly break the law and violate our constitution is the goal. We know who we are fighting for and if our message is not exactly refined yet, it will be....    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Robert Gelbard  SIR – I was shocked and profoundly embarrassed by the utterly false statement made against me in your article on the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) (“ Parachuting in the prosecutors ”, October 15th). Based on two decades of experience in democratic institution-building, law enforcement and counter-narcotics, I have criticised the overall efforts of Francisco Dall’Anese, who heads CICIG, as being not aggressive enough compared with those of Carlos Castresana, his predecessor, and in light of the dire situation facing Guatemala.That is vastly different from your dismaying allegation of “spread(ing) poison”. In fact, I have publicly and repeatedly agreed with Mr Dall’Anese’s position on Carlos Vielmann, a former interior minister.CICIG is a unique and valuable entity in the absence of a functioning Guatemalan justice sector. But precisely for that reason, as Mr Castresana realised, CICIG must for now occupy itself with the prosecution of cases and work on its institution-building function.Guatemala is a country rife with disinformation; you have unfortunately bought into such an effort against me. I am both angry at you...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Soft-soaping Samsung                             SIR – Samsung is indeed a phenomenon, and your account of its latest plans (“ The next big bet ”, October 1st) was informative and timely. But to trumpet this mighty yet flawed behemoth in an associated leader as “ Asia’s new model company ” was a leap too far. Last year you averred: “it’s time to stop coddling the all-conquering  chaebol ” (“ The  chaebol  conundrum ”, April 3rd 2010) and in an accompanying report offered a balanced and critical appraisal of Korean conglomerates and of Samsung in particular (“ Return of the overlord ”). Now, alas, you have joined the coddlers.What has changed? Not the...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Taxing the rich                             SIR – I believe I am classed as one of the wealthy in America, so I took a great interest in your leader on how to get the well-heeled to pay more tax (“ Hunting the rich ”, September 24th). You advocated a tax system that would make the top rates more equal on wages and capital, eliminate virtually all deductions and get rid of corporate taxes. This, you said, would allow for a much lower top rate of income tax and would actually reap more tax revenues from the rich. You appear to be arguing that I, as one of the rich, would prefer to see lower income-tax rates, and for this “benefit” would be willing to pay more money. What are you smoking?I do not give a damn about tax rates. My entrepreneurial instincts are in no way discouraged by high marginal rates. But I do care about how much money I have to pay. I like my deductions, all perfectly legal, around which I have structured my life.Yes, the tax system...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  A plan for the euro                            SIR – Your proposals for rescuing the euro were more comprehensive and constructive than anything else I have seen (“ How to save the euro ”, September 17th). But they did not treat the underlying flaw, which is that Greece, Portugal, Spain and some other members have lost more than 20% of competitiveness in comparison with Germany since the currency was created. This means that, even if the present liquidity and insolvency problems could be treated as you recommended, it would not be long before these countries were in trouble again, requiring more bail-outs.The solution, I suggest, could be to make a strategic retreat to provide an element of flexibility in the exchange-rate regime, based on the 1990 British proposal for a “hard ecu” plan. This was put forward by the City committee in the Bank of England, which I chaired, and was adopted by the then British government. The principle was an...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Britain and the EU                             SIR –  Bagehot’s column  on the Conservative response to the euro-zone crisis (September 17th) claimed that if Britain tries to negotiate a looser relationship with the European Union, the 17 members of the euro zone will simply construct their own treaty. I doubt it, as the 17 would still want to impose laws on all 27 EU countries and spend money raised from those 27. Anyway, if they did that it would require a renegotiation of the treaties affecting the full 27, in which case we would have our veto.You also argued that Britain would not be allowed to “free ride” on the single market without taking all the unpleasant medicine of higher regulations and taxes that go with it. In fact, Britain would be free to trade with the rest of the EU just as any other country in the world can do. Our trade is now governed by global rules.If the EU sought to impose protectionist measures on its trade with us and...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  America and the Middle East                             SIR – Your leader on how the world has changed in the ten years since the attacks of September 11th 2001 only touched upon the mistakes made by the United States in the Middle East over the past decade (“ Ten years on ”, September 3rd). The way for America to improve its standing in the Middle East is very straightforward: match its deeds to its rhetoric and keep its promises.Thus, if the United States says it supports democracy in the Arab world then it must do so in word and action across the entire region, and not selectively support popular demands here or there while remaining quiet when pro-Western governments crack down on people’s protests or, as happened in Algeria in the early 1990s, balk when political players emerge who are not to Washington’s liking.The same holds for the Arab-Israeli conflict. If America truly supports peace and a two-state solution then it must push all parties...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Sex and the city                             SIR – Your briefing on the reasons behind why Asians are marrying later, and less, focused on the motivations of women (“ The flight from marriage ”, August 20th). There is another factor at play: urbanisation. Men in particular tend to value sexual variety, and cities offer diversity and anonymity. Combine that with the easy availability of birth-control, and men can get more of what they want over a longer period of time with reduced risk. Should a child result, the law compels child support (at least in the West) regardless of marriage status; a wife merely adds to the potential cost of alimony. Urbanisation, in Asia as elsewhere, changes men’s cost-risk-reward calculation when it comes to getting wed, hence the trend away from marriage.Stephen CobbNashua, New Hampshire  SIR – As educated Asian women become more financially independent they are indeed tending to marry less, but they still lead...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Not fade away                             SIR – You looked at the factors behind why “Britain has produced too few world-class technology firms” (“ Start me up ”, August 6th). What you did not discuss is Britain’s leading position in university intellectual-property commercialisation. Although British venture capital and early-stage investments have withered over the past decade, some companies have used partnerships with British universities through the stockmarket to provide investors with access to enterprises built on the back of British research.Such companies include Imperial Innovations, Fusion IP and IP Group, which together boast a market capitalisation of more than £450m ($740m). These companies use financial innovation to fuel the technological sort. They have helped many home-grown enterprises cross the chasm of early-stage growth, into which many would-be giants tumble through a lack of available guidance and risk capital. Indeed,...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Kosovo and Serbia                             SIR – Your report on the recent security situation in northern Kosovo appeared to imply that the government of Kosovo acted provocatively in response to a postponement of talks by Serbia (“ A little local difficulty ”, August 6th). In fact, our intention is to ensure that normal border controls are operational and that customs regulations are respected. Criminality, including the trafficking of human beings and narcotics, flourishes when the rule of law is weak or absent. Kosovo is determined to ensure that laws are applied and criminals are deterred.We remain committed to the normalisation of bilateral relations with Serbia. As you noted, exports from Kosovo have been blocked from clearing customs by Serbia since 2008, an unjustified state of affairs that we deplore. By contrast, Kosovo is only applying legal import duties on Serbian exports in accordance with the law.Finally, your article omitted...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  A different kind of crisis                             SIR – The title of your leader on the debt crisis was well chosen (“ Turning Japanese ”, July 30th), but you missed the point. The Japanese problem of the past 20 years, together with the American and European problems of today, boils down to one fact: the economics profession has never considered a recession that could be caused by the private sector minimising debt in order to repair balance sheets after a debt-financed bubble in asset prices. As a result, the profession has no clue as to what is the right thing to do.In this rare type of recession, monetary policy is useless because people with negative equity will not borrow, no matter what the interest rate. Nor will there be many lenders when banks have such huge problems with their balance sheets.In this environment, therefore, government must borrow and spend the savings generated by the deleveraging in the private sector in order to keep the...    
     Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Spain's national debt SIR – You ran an article that mentioned the commitment of the Spanish central government to fulfil targets for deficit consolidation, and the difficulties that this implies for Spain’s regional governments (“ Anyone want to run this country? ”, August 6th). As you said, the central government has agreed to extend financing for half of the money to be returned to it by the regions in 2012, as a result of the liquidation of advances paid to the regions in earlier years.This financing, amounting to slightly less than €2.5 billion ($3.6 billion), or 0.25% of GDP, will be provided on a cost basis, and is meant to enhance the liquidity position of the regions. This is a financing operation that extends the maturities of existing debts and therefore, contrary to what is stated in your article, it neither increases the national debt nor relaxes the commitments to achieve the deficit targets agreed by the regional governments.Elena SalgadoSpanish minister for the  economy and financeMadrid Italian aid    ...     
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com  Women in the boardroom                            SIR – From an American legal perspective, laws that mandate quotas for women on corporate boards in some European countries seem utterly bizarre (“ The wrong way to promote women ”, July 23rd). In America such quotas would be struck down because they disregard the right of male directors to equal treatment. The Supreme Court ruled in its 1989  Croson  decision that quotas violate, rather than promote, equality, calling it “completely unrealistic” to expect groups to be represented in each field or activity “in lockstep proportion to their representation in the local population.”American courts have struck down quotas and sex-balance requirements for boards and commissions in cases such as  Back v Carter . They have allowed companies to challenge quotas on behalf of their male or white employees in cases such as  Lutheran Church Missouri Synod...     
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to   letters@economist.com  Gay life in the South                            SIR – I don’t know if it was just a disappointingly typical buy into stereotypes, but the tone of your article on gay life in the South simplified a complex situation (“ Still far behind ”, July 9th). Gay life in the South is pretty much like gay life elsewhere in America: large, vibrant communities in urban areas, lower visibility in rural districts. This is true in all states. In San Francisco gay life is easy; in Fresno, not so much. It is the same in Europe. London, Paris, Berlin, Prague and Copenhagen are very gay-friendly, though I’m guessing that a small town in Yorkshire is probably not.In Dallas, the “Buckle of the Bible Belt”, gay city-council and school-board members no longer make news. We have the largest church with a gay and lesbian membership in the world. We have a famous gay men’s chorus, which performs to packed audiences.I don’t expect Texas (or any other southern state) will allow...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com       Internet competitiveness      SIR – Your article on the antitrust issues facing Google glossed over the fact that the online marketplace sees itself as under attack from Google in several significant ways (“ Google’s enemies ”, July 2nd). Google is the overwhelmingly dominant online connection for customers to business. This dominance, along with its restrictions on access to YouTube and its book-scanning project, are real causes of concern, not least to artists, authors and other content creators.     Google uses Universal Search to leverage its dominance in a panoply of online markets, including video, e-commerce, vertical search, mobile and social media. This follows a spate of strategic acquisitions that has rightly attracted regulatory interest because of the destructive impacts on competitors in each market.     The websites of these highly innovative competitors can be downgraded, penalised and occasionally removed without warning. The well-documented cases of Foundem, OneNewsPage and eJustice.fr are cases in point. The exclusion of competing search engines from Google’s own...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com        A fourth way on debt      SIR - Your leader on debt reduction, which you admit is a “painful process” that will “dominate the rich world’s economies for years”, focused on three policy options: austerity, exceptional growth and default (“ Handle with care ”, July 9th). But you overlooked a fourth option that is possibly the most realistic and constructive: debt monetisation. Some of the world’s richest economies, led by the United States, Japan and Britain, are probably so much in debt that no realistic growth scenario will be sufficient. Nor will their fragmented democracies yield enough budgetary discipline. A default seems unthinkable for any of these countries, thus growth and austerity could be, at best, only part of any solution.    There is another alternative for big economies that control their currencies. They can simply print the money to pay off their debt (indeed, they already are doing so). One important objection to such debt monetisation is that it leads to increases in a country’s money supply, devaluing its currency and weakening consumer purchasing power. But...    
    Letters are welcome via e-mail to  letters@economist.com       New York’s schools      SIR – Your article, “ Advancing coloured people? ” (June 25th), ignored the fact that, for months, the NAACP tried to avoid legal action before filing its lawsuit against the New York City Board of Education. The school board continued to flout state law and a previous court order that required it to implement plans to fix low-performing schools, engage with parents before shutting down their schools and co-locate schools equitably. In our lawsuit we are standing up with parents and educators to ensure that all students receive a world-class education.    Charter schools serve only 4% of the children in New York, but the co-locations, where traditional and charter schools share space, are creating a system of “separate and unequal”. In one co-location students from the traditional school have old textbooks and broken toilets while charter-school children have high-tech classrooms and renovated restrooms. At another school charter-school students have twice as many science labs, even though they account for half the students. At another, children are...    
                               NO WONDER that, even in his moment of triumph, Mariano Rajoy seemed impatient with the jubilant celebrations by supporters of his conservative People’s Party. On November 20th Mr Rajoy led the PP to an absolute majority in the Spanish parliament with the biggest margin of victory since 1982 (see  article ). He did so despite (or perhaps because of) his promise to be more rigorous than the outgoing Socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero in imposing austerity to keep Spain in the euro zone. Yet Mr Rajoy knows that, with the markets in a eurofunk and bond yields at eye-watering highs, mere promises count for little.His victory was in part a tribute to the dogged persistence and quiet moderation of a man who has led his party for eight years. But it owed more to Spaniards’ rejection of his predecessor. Mr Zapatero will be remembered for liberalising measures, such as on gay marriage and abortion, that helped to make Spain a more modern, tolerant place. But he was slow to see that a housing bubble masked a loss of...    
                               NO MATTER what the “content-should-be-free” crowd says, copyright theft robs artists and businesses of their livelihoods. Creative industries employ millions of people in the advanced world (and could be a rung on the ladder for poorer countries too, if, say, unscrupulous European content thieves did not habitually purloin the efforts of African musicians). The damage may be less than the annual $135 billion that the entertainment and publishing industries claim. These firms could change their business models to reduce the pirates’ profits, especially in countries where an album costs a day’s wages. But mispricing does not justify crime.So far, attempts to stop online piracy have largely failed. Lawsuits did shut down file-sharing services such as Napster and Grokster, but others have taken their place—such as Pirate Bay and the new “cyberlockers” (see  article ) that operate in hard-to-reach jurisdictions. Many users of these sites think they are swapping, not stealing, material. But the cyberlockers make money with extra charges for heavy users....    
                               AT A recent shindig in London of the shale-gas industry, energy firms gave a rosy view of the fuel’s prospects in Europe. Like America, Europe has vast beds of shale rock, in which innumerable bubbles of natural gas are trapped. By cannoning water, sand and chemicals at them, a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking”, the bubbles can be released. This, the firms said, could bring Europe the same bonanza of cheap gas and new jobs in the industry that America is now enjoying (see  article ). It would also lessen Europe’s irksome dependence on Russian gas.Outside the venue, meanwhile, protesters chanted, “Flaming water from our tap, we don’t want this fracking crap.” They referred to fears that fracking can cause contamination of aquifers by the methane and naturally occurring radioactive material it displaces, or by the chemicals it uses. Another worry is that fracking may cause earthquakes. A recent British study suggested that 50 tiny quakes in Lancashire were the result of fracking nearby.Such issues have been raised in...    
                               NOT since revolution erupted nearly a year ago has the Arab world been in such turmoil. Tunisia, where it all began, is going well enough (see  article ). But in Libya the triumphant militias that toppled Muammar Qaddafi and recently seized his son and heir urgently need a democratic bridle (see  article ). In Syria the fate of democracy hangs in the balance, though its tyrant, Bashar Assad, is on the defensive. Chaotic Yemen’s embattled dictator has again promised to step down. And in Egypt, the army and young protesters are once more clashing violently in Cairo’s Tahrir Square (see  article ).Egypt, above all, must not fail. It is the biggest Arab prize by virtue of history, geography and population, now more than 85m-strong. It is the seat of the rejuvenated 22-country Arab League. It should be the Arabs’ breadbasket and economic motor. It was the first Arab country to make peace with Israel and has been America’s...    
                               EVEN as the euro zone hurtles towards a crash, most people are assuming that, in the end, European leaders will do whatever it takes to save the single currency. That is because the consequences of the euro’s destruction are so catastrophic that no sensible policymaker could stand by and let it happen.A euro break-up would cause a global bust worse even than the one in 2008-09. The world’s most financially integrated region would be ripped apart by defaults, bank failures and the imposition of capital controls (see  article ). The euro zone could shatter into different pieces, or a large block in the north and a fragmented south. Amid the recriminations and broken treaties after the failure of the European Union’s biggest economic project, wild currency swings between those in the core and those in the periphery would almost certainly bring the single market to a shuddering halt. The survival of the EU itself would be in doubt.Yet the threat of a disaster does not always stop it from happening. The chances of the euro zone being...    
                               IT WAS not a very ambitious target. All that the congressional “supercommittee” was required to do was to figure out a list of measures that would reduce America’s budget deficits by $1.2 trillion over the next ten years. That sounds a lot, until you realise it is only 0.6% of GDP, not even a quarter of the $5 trillion or so that is really needed to right the books in Washington, and less than 3% of the $44 trillion that the federal government is expected to spend over that period. To reach a goal that a business cost-cutter would regard as desultory, the bipartisan committee of 12 senators and congressmen was accorded exceptional powers. Its work was to be subject to a simple up-or-down vote, with no possibility of amendment; and the Senate would not be able to use its power to filibuster. Yet on November 21st, after three months of deliberation, the team was forced to admit that it had failed.On paper this failure might not seem to matter very much. Supposedly, spending cuts equivalent to the same $1.2 trillion figure will now automatically be triggered, starting in 2013, with $600 billion hacked out of...    
                               IN THE past fortnight, Bashar Assad’s regime has become both lonelier and bloodier. As the isolation of the president and his country have become more stark, you would think that he would become keener to negotiate his way out of his murderous impasse. Yet he seems to be doing the precise opposite. After the Arab League’s offer to mediate, his security forces have sharply increased their rate of killing. Rather than engage seriously with the democratic opposition, Mr Assad seems ever more determined to crush it. As a result, the league took the dramatic step, on November 12th, of suspending Syria from membership. Unless Mr Assad changes course, he risks ending up like Muammar Qaddafi in Libya. Yet even at this late hour it is still worth trying to make him see sense (see  article ).As peaceful protests against Mr Assad’s regime gathered steam, he had reckoned that Syria’s pivotal place in the Arab world would dissuade his fellow Arabs, as well as Turks and Persians, from turning against him. Instead the pace at which he is running...    
                               THE Congress party which has dominated India since even before the British left is in turn dominated by the Nehru-Gandhi family, the democratic world’s most successful political dynasty. Its current leader, Sonia Gandhi, seems sadly to be ill: she has not resumed full duties since receiving treatment abroad for an undisclosed illness, probably cancer. Her son, Rahul, has long been cultivated to take charge of the family firm. But there is a problem with the mild-mannered heir.Mr Gandhi, a quietly clever 41-year-old free of the accusations of graft that dog so many Indian politicians, is popular. But he seems neither enthusiastic about the job of leading a billion people, nor especially well-equipped to manage India’s feuding politicians (see  article ). He has spurned the front-line, preferring to confine himself in youth and rural politics. Two years ago he turned down the offer of a cabinet post from the prime minister, Manmohan Singh. He hardly ever speaks in India’s boisterous parliament. When helping deal with a populist anti-...    
                               WITH thunderclouds looming over the trans-Atlantic economy, it was easy to miss a bright piece of news last weekend from the other crucible of world trade, the Pacific Rim. In Honolulu, where Barack Obama hosted a summit of Asia-Pacific leaders, Canada, Japan and Mexico expressed interest in joining nine countries (America, Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam) in discussing a free-trade pact. Altogether, the possible members of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) produce 40% of world GDP—far more than the European Union.Regional trade deals are not always a good idea. If they distract policymakers from global trade liberalisation, they are to be discouraged. But with the Doha round of global trade talks showing no flicker of life, there is little danger that the TPP will derail a broader agreement; and by cutting barriers, strengthening intellectual-property protections and going beyond a web of existing trade deals, it should boost world trade.The creation of a wider TPP is still some way off. For it to come into being its architects—Mr Obama, who faces a tough...    
                               EVEN by Europe’s cacophonous standards, German policymakers sent mixed signals on the euro this week. At her party’s conference on November 14th the chancellor, Angela Merkel, left no doubt about the gravity of the euro crisis (see Charlemagne). “If the euro fails, then Europe fails,” she said.On the same day Jens Weidmann, the president of the Bundesbank, roiled financial markets with hardline comments designed to close off options for managing the crisis. He ruled out relying on the European Central Bank (ECB) as a lender of last resort to governments, arguing it would be illegal and wrong for the bank to hold down bond yields. Even the current (limited) bond purchases needed to stop. The only way to restore investor confidence in countries such as Italy, he believes, is for their governments to introduce bold reforms.Mr Weidmann is not a lone ideologue. Mario Draghi, the ECB’s new Italian president, has ruled out acting as a lender of last resort to governments, albeit less categorically (see  article ). Mr Weidmann has his...    
                               THIS is not a good time to be foreign. Anti-immigrant parties are gaining ground in Europe. Britain has been fretting this week over lapses in its border controls (see  article ). In America Barack Obama has failed to deliver the immigration reform he promised (see  article) , and Republican presidential candidates would rather electrify the border fence with Mexico than educate the children of illegal aliens. America educates foreign scientists in its universities and then expels them, a policy the mayor of New York calls “national suicide”.This illiberal turn in attitudes to migration is no surprise. It is the result of cyclical economic gloom combined with a secular rise in pressure on rich countries’ borders. But governments now weighing up whether or not to try to slam the door should consider another factor: the growing economic importance of diasporas, and the contribution they can make to a country’s economic growth. Old networks, new...     
                               ALTHOUGH it came after scandal, scheming and a truly dismal record as prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation pledge was no more cathartic than any other of the remedies that the euro zone has so far concocted. The gesture was too little because Mr Berlusconi is so distrusted, after a total of eight and a half disastrous years in charge, that even now some fear he will find a way to hang on to office or stand again. It was too late because, by the time he promised to resign, Italy’s bonds were consumed by panic. At one point yields gapped up towards 7.5%—a level that would eventually pitch Italy into insolvency and long before that triggers a run on its banks.When the world’s third-largest bond market begins to buckle, catastrophe looms. At stake is not just the Italian economy but Spain, Portugal, Ireland, the euro, the European Union’s single market, the global banking system, the world economy, and pretty much anything else you can think of. Greece is important because it sets precedents for the euro—over such things as debt write-downs and rescues (see...    
                               GIVEN that flying people around the world is the ultimate globalised industry, there is oddly little competition in the airlines business. Passengers who are prepared to change planes once or twice to get to their destinations have lots of choice, but on transatlantic routes between hubs there are often only one or two carriers to choose from.This lack of competition is partly the result of collusion sanctioned by regulators. On transatlantic routes members within each of the world’s three big alliances—Star, oneworld and SkyTeam—share costs and agree on prices. They are spreading their tentacles around the world (see  article ). The expected purchase by BA (a oneworld member) of a smaller rival, bmi, from Lufthansa (a Star member), may boost oneworld’s position by adding bmi’s Heathrow slots to oneworld’s already dominant position in transatlantic flights.America’s Department of Transportation (DoT), which has some antitrust powers, has not only given its blessing to the rise of alliances, but actually requires airlines to...    
                               CONGRESS guards its privileges jealously, so when it agrees to delegate much of its power, even temporarily, the moment should not be squandered. That is why so much depends on its Joint Select Committee, a group of six Democrats and six Republicans drawn equally from the House of Representatives and the Senate, which has been charged with hacking away at America’s swollen deficit.By November 23rd, this “supercommittee” is supposed to come up with a plan to save at least $1.2 trillion-1.5 trillion over the next ten years. Exceptionally, any plan it agrees on will not be subject to amendment, only to a straight up-or-down vote, and it will need only a simple majority in the Senate, not the usual 60 votes out of 100. And as a final incentive, if the package fails to get through, harsher and more immediate cuts will automatically be imposed, in ways that politicians of both stripes would hate. In short, if there was ever an incentive for Barack Obama’s party and its Republican opponents to do what they should have done a long time ago, it is this.Few outsiders know what is going on inside the supercommittee,...    
                               MANCHESTER’S town hall is a Victorian neo-Gothic temple to local government, packed with murals commemorating episodes from the city’s history. As the capital of Britain’s long-gone cotton trade, the city is particularly well-endowed with 19th-century civic grandeur; but all over the country, the juxtaposition of the splendour of the old buildings with the impotence of modern councils speaks eloquently of the decline of local government in Britain.Now the Conservative-Liberal Democrat government wants to shift power to locally elected mayors. The aim is a worthy one, and the only thing wrong with the plans is that they do not go nearly far enough.For more than a century governments have sucked power away from Britain’s cities. These days most mayors have little more than a gold chain to show for their offices, and local government is kept on a short financial leash by Whitehall, which provides most of the money that it spends, thus undermining its power and its responsibility.The previous Labour government went some way towards reversing that trend by encouraging a few cities, including London, to vote for mayors...    
                               THE debate about timelines is almost over. This week’s report on Iran’s nuclear programme by the UN’s watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), is its most alarming yet. Although no “smoking gun” proves beyond doubt that Iran is developing nuclear weapons, the evidence gathered in a 12-page annex is hard to interpret in any other way.Concerted efforts by Western intelligence agencies and the Israelis to sabotage the Iranian programme have been less effective than was previously believed. Iran has already begun moving part of its uranium-enrichment capacity to Fordow, a facility buried deep within a mountain near Qom. Intelligence sources estimate that if Iran opted to “break out” from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), it could have at least one workable weapon within a year and a few more about six months after that. Iran’s leaders may not choose that path. But what happens next depends less on Iran’s technical or industrial capabilities than on politics. For the time being at least, ambiguity almost certainly serves Iran’s purposes better than a confrontation. But in Israel, talk of a...    
                               IN THEIR awakening this year, many Arabs have looked to Turkey for inspiration. Turkey is not just a fellow Muslim country and their former imperial power. It also offers, for all its faults, a shining (and rare) example in the Islamic world of a strong democracy and a successful free-market economy. And the Turks have responded well, if sometimes belatedly. They were early to call for change in Egypt. They endorsed NATO’s intervention in Libya. They are now unequivocally backing the opposition to the Assad regime in neighbouring Syria.Yet Turkey’s active foreign policy has attracted censure in parts of the West, especially America. Critics in Washington recall the Turks’ 2003 refusal to allow American troops to cross their territory to invade Iraq. Nowadays they accuse the Turkish government of turning its back on the European Union and NATO. They point to continuing harsh treatment of Turkey’s Kurds and soft treatment of Iran. Above all, they blame Turkey for switching from being a firm friend of Israel, the only other established democracy in the region, into an implacable foe.Are such sweeping accusations...    
                               STUDENT loans are based on a simple idea: that a graduate’s future flow of earnings will more than cover the costs of doing a degree. But with unemployment rates in parts of the rich world at post-war highs, that may no longer hold true for many people. The consequences will be felt by everybody.All over the world student indebtedness is causing problems—witness this month’s violent protests in Chile (see  article ). In Britain, according to a recent parliamentary report, rising university fees mean that student debt is likely to treble to £70 billion by 2015. But, partly because higher education there is so expensive, the scale of the problem is far greater in America. When the next official estimates of outstanding student debt there are published, it is expected to be close to $1 trillion, higher than credit-card borrowing (see  article ). Credit quality in other classes of consumer debt has been improving; delinquency rates on student loans are...    
                               THE global economy is sicker than a man with a bellyful of bad oysters. The last thing it needs now is a trade war. Yet on October 11th America’s Senate passed the Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, which would allow any “fundamentally misaligned” currency to be labelled a subsidy subject to countervailing duties. No prizes for guessing which large Asian nation the senators have in mind.Variants of this bill have been introduced regularly since 2003; all have failed. But this time may be different: anti-China sentiment in both parties has grown. Republican leaders have so far resisted holding a vote on a similar bill in the House of Representatives and look unlikely to change their minds; but if they do, the bill would almost certainly pass.It may seem contradictory that the Senate is threatening to raise barriers to trade with China even as it has just passed bilateral trade pacts with Colombia, South Korea and Panama. But those treaties were first signed four to five years ago. Public support for free trade has been withering for a decade, tracking the decline in middle-class American...    
                               IT IS a year until Americans go to the polls, on November 6th 2012, to decide whether Barack Obama deserves another term. In January the Republicans start voting in their primaries, with the favourite, Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, facing fading competition from Herman Cain, a pizza tycoon, and Rick Perry, the governor of Texas. Already American politics has succumbed to election paralysis, with neither party interested in bipartisan solutions.This would be a problem at the best of times; and these times are very far from that. Strikingly, by about three to one, Americans feel their country is on the wrong track. America’s sovereign debt has been downgraded. Unemployment remains stubbornly above 9%, with the long-term unemployed making up the largest proportion of the jobless since records began in 1948. As the superpower’s clout seems to ebb towards Asia, the world’s most consistently inventive and optimistic country has lost its mojo.Some of this distress was inevitable. Whatever the country’s leaders did in Washington, the credit crunch was always going to cause a lot of suffering. Rising...    
                               FIRST Greece; then Ireland and Portugal; then Italy and Spain. Month by month, the crisis in the euro area has crept from the vulnerable periphery of the currency zone towards its core, helped by denial, misdiagnosis and procrastination by the euro-zone’s policymakers. Recently Belgian and French government bonds have been in the financial markets’ bad books. Investors are even sniffy about German bonds: an auction of ten-year Bunds on November 23rd shifted only €3.6 billion-worth ($4.8 billion) of the €6 billion-worth on offer.Worse, there are signs that the euro zone’s economy is heading for recession, if it is not there already. Industrial orders in the euro zone fell by 6.4% in September, the steepest decline since the dark days of December 2008. A closely watched index of euro-zone sentiment, based on surveys of purchasing managers in manufacturing and services, is also signalling contraction, with a reading of 47.2: anything below 50 suggests activity is shrinking. The European Commission’s index of consumer confidence fell in November for the fifth month in a row.Now an even bigger calamity is looking...    
                               IN THE flat world of maps, sharp lines show where one country ends and another begins. The real world is more fluid. Peoples do not have borders the way that parcels of land do. They seep from place to place; they wander; they migrate.Consider the difference between China and the Chinese people. One is an enormous country in Asia. The other is a nation that spans the planet. More Chinese people live outside mainland China than French people live in France, with some to be found in almost every country. Then there are some 22m ethnic Indians scattered across every continent (the third Indian base in Antarctica will open next year). Hundreds of smaller diasporas knit together far-flung lands: the Lebanese in west Africa and Latin America, the Japanese in Brazil and Peru, the smiling Mormons who knock on your door wherever you live.Diasporas have been a part of the world for millennia. Today two changes are making them matter much more. First, they are far bigger than they were. The world has some 215m first-generation migrants, 40% more than in 1990. If migrants were a nation, they would be the world’s fifth-...    
                               IT IS a crisp autumn morning in Seoul, and a hopeful fisherman sits dreaming by the Cheonggyecheon stream as the world bustles happily by. Glass skyscrapers rise behind him housing the capital’s new financial district. The shopfronts at their base are among the swankiest in Asia. Office workers, families and schoolchildren amble past. Busking fills the air. The water tumbles past plum trees and willows.Twenty years ago, this background would itself have seemed a dream for anyone foolish enough to be trying to fish the Cheonggyecheon. Its waters, dirty and hidden, were trapped beneath a roaring highway; its surroundings were a slum of sweatshops, metal bashing and poverty. The reclamation of the Cheonggyecheon, one of the great urban-regeneration projects of the world, has about it the air of a dream achieved. So, to a large extent, has the Korea through which the stream flows.In 1960, in the aftermath of a devastating war, the exhausted south was one of the poorest countries in the world, with an income per head on a par with the poorest parts of Africa. By the end of 2011 it will be richer than the...    
                               IT IS better to travel hopefully than to arrive. For investors, the hopeful journey started in the 1980s as inflation came under control around the world. Yields came down, prices went up, a simple “buy and hold” strategy could often provide decent returns. Even boring old Treasury bonds returned 9.1% annually between 1982 and 2007, according to a Deutsche Bank study of long-term returns.At the end of such a journey, though, yields must reach a point where they can fall little if any further. And that explains much of the sorry pass at which investors have now arrived. Almost every asset class seems to be fraught with danger. Equities have suffered two bear markets in just over a decade and remain vulnerable to a rich-world recession; government bonds offer little protection against a resurgence of inflation; commodities are volatile and hostage to a possible drop in Chinese demand; property is still suffering from indigestion after the past decade’s boom.   ...     
                               GEOLOGICAL structures of vast antiquity are more often called on to bolster the arguments of atheists than enlisted as tokens of a deity’s existence—let alone his nationality. But the deep Cretaceous salts which trap oil in rocks off Brazil’s coast are “strong evidence”, in the words of President Dilma Rousseff, “that God is Brazilian.” It is not a new conceit, but it has rarely been a more apposite one. The  pré-sal  (“below the salt”) oilfields look set to generate wealth on a scale that could transform Brazil’s economy.Before the  pré-sal  finds, which started in 2007, the country’s total proven and probable reserves were 20 billion barrels. Conservative estimates for the total recoverable  pré-sal  oil now come in at 50 billion barrels: a little less than everything in the North Sea, all in the waters of one country. Optimists expect three times as much. “In the  pré-sal  area, our exploration has a success rate of 87%, compared with a world average of 20% to 25% for the industry,” says Sergio Gabrielli, the...    
                               ERIC WONG, who helps run his Hong Kong family’s money through an investment office, TCG Capital, looks like a hedge-fund manager’s dream. He’s rich, young and, having been to university there, comfortable with American ways—just the type of investor that Western hedge funds looking for Asian expansion have set their sights on. He is not, however, very interested. Real estate is the “best pension plan my family ever had,” he says. Why change?Where they are not greeted with apathy, Asia-minded hedge funds often face antipathy. Since the financial crisis of the late 1990s “fund” has been a four-letter word throughout Asia. George Soros, a famous hedge-fund investor, is still reviled for aggravating and profiting from the crisis. When the Chinese refer to hedge funds as  ju e , or “big crocodiles”, it is not by way of a compliment on their killer instincts.Despite muted interest and outright scorn, though, more and more hedge-fund managers are determined to make their mark on Asia. They see a lot of money to be made, a lack of entrenched competition and a vast number of potential clients....    
                               AT THE end of October, after eight years in the top job, Jean-Claude Trichet will pass the presidency of the European Central Bank (ECB) to Mario Draghi. Italy’s leading central banker thus takes his place in the front row of the fight to push back the euro crisis, bearing every bit as heavy a responsibility as chancellors and presidents. Whatever plans Europe’s political leaders draw up at their summit on October 23rd, the ECB’s new head will be a vital part of their success—or failure.Mr Draghi has much in common with the Frenchman he is following. Both have had long careers in public life, including stints at their finance ministries and heading their national central banks. As chairman of the Financial Stability Board, Mr Draghi has been leading international efforts to remedy the ills of global banking. Besides his strong credentials for the job, Mr Draghi shares with Mr Trichet a pragmatic streak, a desirable characteristic when confronting a challenge as grave as the euro crisis.Not all of Mr Draghi’s background works in his favour. His brief excursion into the private sector, working at Goldman Sachs...    
                               IT WAS always going to be a hard act to follow. On October 4th Apple staged a press conference to launch its latest iPhone and other gadgets. Tim Cook, the computing giant’s new chief executive, and his colleagues did a perfectly competent job of presenting its latest wares. But it was inevitable that comparisons would be drawn between Mr Cook’s understated approach on stage and that of Steve Jobs, his predecessor, whose sense of showmanship had turned so many Apple product launches into quasi-religious experiences. The news the following day that Mr Jobs had finally died following a long battle with cancer turned the feeling of disappointment into one of deep sadness.Many technologists have been hailed as visionaries. If anyone deserves that title it was Mr Jobs. Back in the 1970s, the notion that computers might soon become ubiquitous seemed fanciful. In those days of green-on-black displays, when floppy discs were still floppy, he was among the first to appreciate the potential that lay in the idea of selling computers to ordinary people. More recently, under his guidance, Apple went from being a company on...    
                               “THERE is nothing sinister about this,” says the chief executive of a Portuguese drugs firm. “We have to consider: what would happen with inflation, how would we get credit, collect debts and pay our suppliers and workers?” For months he and other Portuguese bosses have been rehearsing plans for what to do if the euro zone fractures or breaks apart completely. Many firms also have formal contingency plans for a sudden exit by Portugal by itself.Such planning is not just a matter for companies in threatened economies on the periphery. Even a partial break-up would be catastrophic for companies throughout the euro zone, and pretty dire elsewhere in Europe’s single market. Like a hard punch on the jaw, it would cause painful dislocation. New currencies would have to be introduced. Panic would seize the banks on which companies depend for funding. Economic growth would hit a wall.This is not a calamity it is easy to plan for. News of a euro-zone fragmentation, if it comes, will come suddenly, like a declaration of war. Where countries leave, borders will likely be closed to prevent mass smuggling of euro...    
                               IN 2000 Samsung started making batteries for digital gadgets. Ten years later it sold more of them than any other company in the world. In 2001 it threw resources into flat-panel televisions. Within four years it was the market leader. In 2002 the firm bet heavily on “flash” memory. The technology it delivered made the iPhone and iPad a reality, and made Samsung Apple’s biggest supplier—and now its biggest hardware competitor.The handsome payoffs from these ballsy bets made the South Korean company a colossus; last year its sales passed $135 billion. Now it is embarking on a similarly audacious plan to move away from electronics into technologies where it barely has a presence today. It intends to spend $20 billion over ten years on solar panels, light-emitting diodes (LEDs) used for lighting, electric-vehicle batteries, medical devices and biotech drugs. These businesses shift Samsung away from easily substitutable gadgets towards more essential industrial goods (see table)—or from “infotainment” to “lifecare”, as the company puts it. Just as electronics defined swathes of the 20th century, the company believes...    
                               ASKED why he robbed banks, Willie Sutton, a hold-up artist of some accomplishment during America’s Depression, answered simply: “Because that’s where the money is.” Advanced economies that have piled up debts are eyeing their rich for similar reasons. The way to begin filling holes in the budget, many suggest, is by extracting more from those who have done best. This week Barack Obama proposed paying for new stimulus measures and deficit cuts by reforming the tax system to ensure that millionaires do not pay a lower tax rate than middle-class families.Mr Obama’s reform is based on the “Buffett rule”, so named after Warren Buffett, a folksy billionaire who publicly scorns a system that allows him to enjoy an effective tax rate that is less than his secretary’s. A growing number of the rich appear to agree. Wealthy Germans and French have signed petitions in favour of higher taxes. Luca di Montezemolo, who sells Ferraris to many of them as chairman of the Italian sports-car company, told  La Repubblica  it was “right” for the rich to pay more. The broader public agrees. Even in tax-hating...    
                               MISDIAGNOSIS is not, in itself, malpractice. Everyone, be they doctors or central bankers or politicians, makes mistakes. But when the misdiagnosis involves ignoring some symptoms and persisting in treatments that aren’t working, it is not so easily excused. And that is what is going on with the euro, where a stress on demanding austerity has eclipsed the need to boost confidence.Germany, the European Central Bank (ECB) and many others diagnose today’s mess as stemming primarily from profligacy on the periphery. “It is an indisputable fact”, Wolfgang Schäuble, Germany’s finance minister, recently wrote in the  Financial Times , that “excessive state spending has led to unsustainable levels of debt and deficits that now threaten our economic welfare.”If profligacy is the problem, the argument goes, austerity is the solution, with public thrift serving to rebuild investor confidence. The leaders of the euro’s core countries have demanded draconian budget cuts as the price of rescue loans to troubled economies. They have pressed the Italian and Spanish governments to tighten more and faster....    
                               THE costs of efforts to save the euro are justified by the claim that the alternative would be too dreadful to contemplate. But economic history is littered with examples of fixed exchange rates that came unfixed; the disuniting of currency unions, though rarer, happens from time to time. So how do the costs of sustaining the euro compare with the costs of its falling apart?The question does not have a simple answer. For a start, there are lots of different ways to fall apart: a wholesale dissolution into the original currencies; a fissioning into northern hard-currency and southern soft-currency blocks; or the exit of a trickle of countries, or just one. Further complexities come from the panoply of choices the departing and remaining states would make after the fall. And all this turns as much or more on law and politics as on economics.Take two specific scenarios. Germany could leave, either on its own or with a select group of small economies—Austria, Finland and the Netherlands—as recently suggested by Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former head of the Federation of German Industries. Second, and more likely,...    
                               WHAT’S the French for “this sucker could go down”? Echoes of 2008, when the global financial system wobbled and George Bush gave his pithy view of the American economy, now resound on the other side of the Atlantic. Credit-default-swap spreads for European banks, a measure of how costly it is to buy insurance against their default, are at record highs (see chart 1).     
                     The Athenian approach            ALTHOUGH Spain’s youth-unemployment figures are the European Union’s worst, those of Greece are not much better. Along with Italy (which fares a little better on this particular measure) these Mediterranean economies share a savage distinction between older “insiders” with permanent employment and generous benefits—a class which very definitely includes the countries’ politicians—and younger “outsiders” on short-term contracts with minimal entitlements.In Italy, where the government has floated the idea of making it easier for firms to hire younger workers by easing some labour rules, the country’s largest trade-union federation shows what Italian youngsters are up against: “This would damage the rights of all workers in order to help the young,” Vincenzo Scudiere of the CGIL told the  Wall Street Journal . A notorious Greek law passed in 1992 forced new entrants to the workforce (and their employers) to pay higher payroll taxes than those already employed. Savas Robolis, head of research at INE-GSEE, a union-backed think-tank, says...    
                               MARIA GIL ULLDEMOLINS is a smart, confident young woman. She has one degree from Britain and is about to conclude another in her native Spain. And she feels that she has no future.Ms Ulldemolins belongs to a generation of young Spaniards who feel that the implicit contract they accepted with their country—work hard, and you can have a better life than your parents—has been broken. Before the financial crisis Spanish unemployment, a perennial problem, was pushed down by credit-fuelled growth and a prolonged construction boom: in 2007 it was just 8%. Today it is 21.2%, and among the young a staggering 46.2%. “I trained for a world that doesn’t exist,” says Ms Ulldemolins.Spain’s figures are particularly horrendous. But youth unemployment is rising perniciously across much of the developed world. It can seem like something of a side show; the young often have parents to fall back on; they can stay in education longer; they are not on the scrapheap for life. They have no families to support nor dire need of the medical insurance older workers may lose when they lose their jobs. But there is a wealth of evidence to...    
                               IN 1992 two Chinese cities, one just south of Beijing, the other just north of Hong Kong, were in desperate shape even by the standards of a desperately poor country. Their municipally run companies were in danger of bankrupting not only themselves but the cities too. Zhucheng, near Beijing, was best known as the birthplace of Jiang Qing, Mao Zedong’s despotic, doctrinaire fourth wife, who died in jail in 1991. Two-thirds of its revenues were being eaten by corporate losses. Shunde, a small city in Guangdong, was buried in debt.Meanwhile, the authorities in Beijing were becoming concerned that the state banking system, already creaking under the weight of bad debt, would be unable to bear even more. With the quiet acquiescence of the central government, Zhucheng and Shunde ignored doctrine, old laws and 40 years of failed policies in search of a better approach.In a carefully constructed phrase subsequently endorsed, in 1993, by the all-powerful State Council, the two cities engaged in  gaizhi , which means “changing the system” and implies the diversification of ownership. Put more simply,...    
    HOT and high in the Sierra Madre, the city of Saltillo is a long way from Wall Street. Stuffed goats keep an eye on customers in the high-street  vaquera , or cowboy outfitter, where workers from the local car factories blow their pesos on snakeskin boots and $100 Stetsons. Pinstriped suits and silk ties are outnumbered by checked shirts and silver belt-buckles; pickups are prized over Porsches.The financial crisis of 2008 began on the trading floors of Manhattan, but the biggest tremors were felt in the desert south of the Rio Grande. Mexico suffered the steepest recession of any country in the Americas, bar a couple of Caribbean tiddlers. Its economy shrank by 6.1% in 2009 (see chart 1). Between the third quarter of 2008 and the second quarter of 2009, 700,000 jobs were lost, 260,000 of them in manufacturing. The slump was deepest in the prosperous north: worst hit was the border state of Coahuila. Saltillo, its capital, had grown rich exporting to America. The state’s output fell by 12.3% in 2009 as orders dried up.                           The recession turned a reasonable decade for Mexico’s economy into a...    
                     Empire building the classy way            WHEN Terry Winter was producing episodes of “The Sopranos” ten years ago, his film crew hared all over New Jersey shooting in and around butchers’ shops, family homes and strip clubs. For his new series, Mr Winter has a world of his own. “Boardwalk Empire”, like “The Sopranos”, is a gangster drama made by HBO, a subscription-television company—but it is a period piece shot on a purpose-built 300-foot-long set in Brooklyn. There is a row of artfully tatty shops—a palmist, a photo studio, a display of baby incubators. One side of the set is dominated by a huge blue screen on which images of sky and sea are later superimposed. This is not cheap. The pilot episode of “Boardwalk Empire” cost almost $20m. But it takes more to please TV audiences these days, says Mr Winter.If so, that is in large part HBO’s own fault. For more than a decade it has lavished good, smart product on its viewers, and in the process raised the entire industry’s creative game. In the late 1990s HBO pioneered an intelligent, patient style of storytelling that gloried in loose...    
                               COMETH the hour, cometh the central bankers. On August 8th the European Central Bank (ECB) began buying Italian and Spanish bonds in an effort to stop the sovereign-debt crisis from crippling two of the continent’s largest economies. And a day later America’s Federal Reserve made an unprecedented commitment to keeping interest rates at more or less zero for two more years to keep a stalling economy out of recession.In both cases the dramatic steps were taken in the face of political failures to get to the heart of the problems at hand. The fact that they took both banks well outside their normal zones of operation was underscored by the internal dissent both moves faced, dissent rarely seen in the consensus-driven world of central banking.The initial market reaction was positive, at least on one side of the Atlantic. Yields on Italian and Spanish bonds fell sharply relative to Germany’s. In America Treasury yields fell and stocks rose—but not for long, as equity markets fell again on August 10th. No one should see this as a fundamental turnaround. The ECB’s earlier bond-buying hasn’t saved smaller countries from...    
                               PULLY CHAU SPENT eight years working for the Chinese office of a big international advertising agency and never got a pay rise; there was always some excuse. “It was stupid of me not to ask,” she says. “If I had been a Caucasian man, I would have done better.” She stuck around because she liked the idea of working for an outfit that was well known in China and hoped to learn something. Eventually she got fed up and took a job with another Western agency, draftfcb, where she is now chairman and CEO for Greater China, based in Shanghai. Just turned 50, glamorous, confident and boundlessly energetic, she could pick and choose from any number of jobs. There are lots of opportunities for women in China, she says—but in business life is still easier for men.Women make up 49% of China’s population and 46% of its labour force, a higher proportion than in many Western countries. In large part that is because Mao Zedong, who famously said that “women hold up half the sky”, saw them as a resource and launched a campaign to get them to work outside the home. China is generally reckoned to be more open to women than other East...    
                               “THE MOST STRESSFUL thing about having this baby was arranging cover at work for the time I was going to be away,” says Sara Leclerc, an in-house lawyer with an international fire-protection firm. Her new baby girl is asleep and her four-year-old son is watching television. Over a drink and a snack in her stylish house in the woods outside Helsinki she explains that she plans to be at home for about a year, but will keep in close touch with her company and then resume work full-time. Her husband, Pekka Erkinheimo, a lawyer with another company, will do his share. In this part of the world balancing work and children is for fathers as well as for mothers.Finland’s gap between male and female employment rates is less than three percentage points, among the smallest in the world, and the vast majority of Finnish women have full-time jobs. Anne Brunila, executive vice-president of Fortum, an energy company, says that those who stay at home are often questioned about their choice. But working women’s lives are made easier by employers’ enlightened attitudes, excellent public child-care provision and generous...    
    “WOMEN ARE NOT at the top anywhere,” says Herminia Ibarra, a professor at the INSEAD business school near Paris. “Many get on the high-potential list and then languish there for ever.” That is broadly true not only in business but also in politics, academia, law, medicine, the arts and almost any other field you care to mention.                           In parliaments across the world women on average hold just 20% of the seats (see chart 6), though again the Nordics do much better. In Finland—one of the first countries to give them the vote, in 1906—women have at various times held more than half the ministerial jobs. The prime minister one back was a woman and so is the current president, Tarja Halonen, the first female to hold the post. A lawyer, doughty fighter for women’s rights and single mother, she is nearing the end of her second and final term of office but would like to see another woman president soon: “Once is not enough.” Elsewhere too female political leaders are becoming less unusual—think of Germany’s Angela Merkel, Brazil’s Dilma Rousseff, Australia’s Julia Gillard or Liberia’s Ellen Johnson Sirleaf—but still far...    
    “PERHAPS WE WOMEN should just keep out of this male circus,” said one of the participants in a forum on “German Female Executives” run by Odgers Berndtson, a firm of headhunters. Gabriele Stahl, a partner in the firm’s Frankfurt office, recalls this comment because it seems to sum up the way many female managers feel about getting to the top of the corporate tree.If they ever do. A study by Elke Holst and Julia Schimeta by the German Institute of Economic Research in Berlin found that in 2010 women held only 3.2% of all executive board seats in Germany’s 200 biggest non-financial firms. In the largest companies their share was even smaller. Financial institutions and insurance companies, where at least half of all employees are female, did no better than the rest, and state-owned companies were only slightly ahead. On the supervisory boards, the other component of Germany’s two-tier board structure, women are slightly better represented because some of the seats are reserved for employees, but last year they still made up only 11% of the total—and one-third of these boards had none at all. That list includes household names like Porsche, E.ON and Robert Bosch. The glass ceiling, like everything else in Germany, is pretty solid.   ...     
                     A woman’s place            IN 1964 LADYBIRD BOOKS, a British publishing company, launched a series of small picture books to help young children learn to read. They featured Peter and Jane, their dog, their house, their toys and the rest of their little world. Their dad went out to work and their mum stayed at home and looked after Peter and Jane. By the late 1970s, after a couple of updates, their world had changed slightly: dad did more things around the house and Jane was wearing jeans rather than skirts. But she still spent a lot of her time at home playing with her doll or helping mum. Peter preferred to be out and about with dad.The books are still available, but their charm is now of the vintage variety. When they were first published, families in most industrial countries were just like Peter’s and Jane’s. In America in the early 1970s more than half of all families with children consisted of a breadwinner husband, a stay-at-home wife and two or more kids; now only a fifth do. Instead there are lots of single-parent households, and even if couples live together they no longer...    
                               WHEN HILDA SOLIS was at high school, a male career adviser told her mother that the girl was not college material; she should consider becoming a secretary. Hilda was furious. One of seven children born to working-class immigrant parents, she had high ambitions. She did go to college, became a lawmaker in California and is now secretary of labour, the first Latina to hold a cabinet post in America’s federal government.On Tarja Halonen’s first day at work in the legal department of a trade union she answered the phone to a man who, hearing a female voice, asked to speak to one of the lawyers. She informed him that he was speaking to one. Things got better after that. Following her stint as a lawyer she served in Finland’s parliament for over 20 years. Since 2000 she has been the country’s president, the first female in the job.Both these incidents happened in the 1970s. They would be much less likely today, partly because political correctness has made people more cautious (not least thanks to a series of high-profile sex-discrimination court cases) but mainly because attitudes really have changed. Josef Ackermann...    
    OF THE WORLD’s 774m illiterate adults two-thirds are women, a share that has remained unchanged for the past two decades. In rich countries pretty much everyone, male or female, can read and write (though employers sometimes wonder). In developing regions such as South Asia, sub-Saharan and north Africa and the Middle East, men are still much more likely to be literate than women. But girls everywhere are beginning to catch up. Across the emerging world, 78% of them are now at primary school, an only slightly smaller proportion than boys (82%). At secondary level enrolment remains lower and girls are further behind, but things are getting better there too.Education for girls in poor countries has all sorts of desirable consequences: not only the likelihood of a better job with higher pay, but also of better health, a later marriage, fewer children and being able to provide better care for the family. Aid donors are making a special effort to give girls’ education a push. Robert Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, has taken to saying that investing in girls is not just a good thing but a smart thing to do.   ...     
                     Athenian democracy on four legs            TIPOS INFAMES IS a fine bookshop in central Madrid, run by three young friends and stocked with the sort of books you were always meaning to read, until work and children got in the way. Well aware that the intellect needs gentle encouragement, the owners lure you in with strong coffee and generous glasses of Spanish wine. Running a bookshop is difficult, says “Curro” Llorca; these days he doesn’t get so much reading done either. But business is passable.Curro and his friends needed three years to set up shop. They had to obtain a full house of separate permits, one to sell books, a second to sell coffee and a third to sell wine. The town hall said not to worry and advised Curro to open his doors while he was still waiting for the paperwork. But the budding entrepreneurs wondered what they would do if the police turned up.Tormented by unemployment, Spain needs new firms like Tipos Infames. Yet in the World Bank’s ranking of how easy it is to start a business the country comes only 133rd, after Kenya.Next to quelling the crisis, the single most important...    
                     Tusk gets into shape            EVERY COUNTRY SEES “Europe” as a projection of its own hopes and fears. For Germany it is redemption; for France a means to amplify French power; for Italians it is not Rome; for Belgians it is not Brussels; for the Baltic states it is a long way from Moscow; for Romania and Bulgaria it is order; for Spain it is the solution; and for much of central Europe it is home.The rest of the world has a stake in what happens in Europe, too. The overwhelming feeling is frustration that European leaders seem so incapable. Andrew Balls, of PIMCO, the world’s largest bond investor, says that the difference between emerging-market crises and G10 crises has always been that you expect G10 governments to remain in control. After a series of half-rescues of the euro, he wonders whether this rule still applies.It is a sure bet that at crucial moments America will be on hand to browbeat Europeans into taking action. The Federal Reserve will stand by to back the European Central Bank. Neither wants to see the world economy dragged into recession by European blunders. But...    
    IN THE HEART of the EU’s administrative district in Brussels, a little way inside the council building where EU ministers hammer out legislation, stands a big bronze bust of Justus Lipsius. A 16th-century humanist who sought to reconcile Christianity and Stoicism, Lipsius betokens learning and integrity.On closer inspection, though, the bust turns out to be made of painted plaster. If you rap it with your knuckle you hear the thwack of gypsum rather than the ring of cold metal. Low down on the great scholar’s mantle is a small white patch where the paint has chipped away. Far from adding dignity to the business of the council, the mock-bronze inadvertently honours the Brussels tradition of making do. It is this spirit of grubby compromise, not lofty idealism, that will determine the future of the euro.That is because, as Joseph Schumpeter argued, a monetary system cannot be separated from the society that underlies it. Saving the euro is about much more than the optimal design of a currency area. Even as the euro zone fights to steady its banks and its sovereign borrowers, it must grapple with the profound choices that this special report has set out. Four choices The most important of these is Europe’s attitude to globalisation. The more the euro zone embraces growth-enhancing reform, the lower the chance that its members will, after years of grinding...    
                               WHEN BRITAIN ABANDONED the gold standard in 1931, it was not only forsaking a system for managing the currency but also acknowledging that it could no longer bear the mantle of empire. When America broke the dollar’s peg with gold in 1971, it ushered in a decline that continued until Paul Volcker re-established confidence in the currency in the early 1980s. As Joseph Schumpeter, the great Austrian economist, once wrote: “The monetary system of a people reflects everything that the nation wants, does, suffers, is.”In the same way, the crisis that has engulfed the European Union (EU) is about much more than the euro. As government bonds, share prices and banks swoon and global recession knocks on the door, the first fear is of financial and economic collapse. But to understand what is happening to the currency you also need to look at what is happening to Europe.The euro will not be safe until Europe answers some fundamental questions that it has run away from for many years. At their root is how its nations should respond to a world that is rapidly changing around them. What will it do as globalisation strips the West of the monopoly...    
                     A touch of xenophobia            EUROPE HAS A dissonant new voice. Anti-Muslim, anti-elite, anti-globalisation and increasingly anti-Brussels, populists now count for something in the Nordic countries, among the Dutch and Flemish, in France, Italy and Austria, and in parts of eastern Europe. They come in many varieties, but all claim to represent what Pierre Poujade, France’s original post-war populist, called “the ripped-off, lied-to little people”.These movements are sometimes described as neo-fascist. Some of them indeed are, and all of them embrace odious and intolerant views of one sort or another. But to dismiss them as fascist, and thereby safely rule them out of European political life, offers the liberal mainstream false comfort. Over the past few years populists have found ways to set themselves apart from a neo-Nazi ideology. Many support gay and women’s rights (all the better, they think, to bash the Muslims), and many are fervently pro-Israel. They are here to stay.Europe’s populists are not likely to form governments; they lack the votes and are completely unequipped for...    
    OVER THE PAST decade Europe’s troubled economies have lost competitiveness against Germany, as the charts on the previous page show. Within a fixed currency they cannot devalue. Instead they need a combination of lower real wages, lower input prices and higher productivity. Higher inflation in Germany would make that easier. Structural reforms are hard, otherwise governments would have undertaken them long ago. But if countries continue to avoid hard choices, the adjustment will eventually be forced on them through recession and unemployment.At the same time these economies must work off their debts. For the public sector, that can be through a combination of tax increases, spending cuts or growth. But it is hard, not least because Western societies have started ageing, which means that fewer people are in work paying tax and more in retirement claiming benefits. The IMF reckons that for the rich world’s governments to take public debt back to 60% of GDP by 2030 they would need to improve their budget balances by a huge 8% of GDP by 2020. If governments fail to get their borrowing under control, then the adjustment will, again, be forced on the economy—this time by the bond markets.Explore our   interactive guide   to Europe's troubled...    
    IN GERMAN EYES this crisis is all about profligacy. Greece set the tone when it lied about its circumstances and lived beyond its means (see map and charts).                           There is no disputing Greek dissipation, nor the fact that the euro zone’s troubled members, which also include Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy, must now pay a heavy price. But those other troubled countries were not exactly profligate. Before the crisis the governments of both Ireland and Spain ran budget surpluses. Both meticulously kept within the limits for deficits and debts set down by the stability and growth pact—unlike Germany, which flouted the rules for four years from 2003 (and avoided punishment). Nor did Italy lurch into extravagance.     
                     Keep up now, Nicolas            WHEN DE GAULLE’S foreign minister asked him which officials France should dispatch to Brussels to staff the new European Commission, the general replied: “Send the most stupid.” Although these days France installs some of its best people in Brussels to watch what the EU gets up to, that condescending attitude has never entirely disappeared. If it had a choice, France would keep the commission firmly in its place and run the show with Germany as a sort of European G2, but enlargement of the EU to 27 countries got in the way. The euro crisis presents France with the best chance in decades to drag the EU back on track.At the same time, though, the crisis has established a new German dominance in Europe. As the continent’s biggest economy, Germany has set the terms of the various euro-zone rescues. Having largely absorbed east Germany since unification in 1990, it is looking for markets in the emerging economies. And, bit by bit, it is carving out a more assertive and independent role.When Nicolas Sarkozy, France’s president, meets Angela Merkel, Germany’s chancellor,...    
                               THE MOST IMPORTANT event in Indian business in 2011 may have been an outburst on September 6th by Sunil Mittal, the boss of Bharti Airtel, the mobile-phone operator. India’s telecoms industry is admired the world over for the innovative way in which it has slashed prices and put phones into the hands of even the very poorest. Today there are some 600m active subscribers in India, many of them in the countryside. But Mr Mittal said the extra cost of servicing rural customers, and their low usage levels, had made things unprofitable. Prices are now expected to go up across the industry, after two decades of decline. India’s low-cost telecoms revolution has, it seems, reached its limit.Indian firms have made much of their ability to serve the poor masses at the “bottom of the pyramid”. Along with cheap phones, other celebrated examples include one-rupee sachets of shampoo and clever schemes to get around the lack of bank accounts. This reflects raw commercial instinct, but also serves an ideological purpose by showing that capitalism in India is not just for the middle classes. It is politic for Indian bosses to...    
    TO FIND RAJEEV PIRAMAL, the 35-year-old boss of Peninsula Land, you go down a drive in deafening Parel, an up-and-coming business district in Mumbai that used to be the centre of the textile industry. A new tower block is zooming up on one side, and nets hang overhead to guard against falling debris. Mr Piramal’s office is in an old mill building whose steel pillars are stamped with “Blackburn”, the English town where they were forged long ago. This is a place where corporate death and rebirth is happening in real time; where derelict factories and workers’ tenements are being demolished to make way for trading floors and media outfits with ping-pong tables in their lobbies.The family firm isn’t dying in this environment, it is thriving. Mr Piramal’s great-grandfather was a trader who made it big in textiles in Bombay, as Mumbai was once known. The family’s mills were clobbered in the 1980s and early 1990s, but unlike some of Bombay’s other famous textiles clans, such as the Mafatlals, the Piramals have not faded away. They turned to property, redeveloping their defunct industrial sites a decade ago, then taking on others’ mill land and, most recently, evolving into a mainstream developer across the country, with book equity of some $300m. Rajeev’s branch of the family also dabbles in engineering and entertainment. Another bit of the clan split off in 1981 and operates a...    
                               ON AUGUST 1ST India’s finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, gathered the country’s senior businesspeople for a pep-talk in New Delhi. The event (pictured) was notable for two reasons. First, the subject of discussion was the wobble in confidence that has taken place over the past year. Although a mini-industry has arisen of India optimists who predict that the country’s entrepreneurial spirit will make it an economic superpower over the next two decades, many business folk on the ground feel disillusioned. They worry that India’s notorious red tape, graft and lack of infrastructure are finally catching up with it. Largely unnoticed abroad and eclipsed by the rich world’s sovereign-debt crisis, the Indian economy has hit a sticky patch, with investment slowing, inflation high and growth expected to dip to perhaps 7%, from a peak of 10%. After two and a half hours, needless to say, the bosses emerged and expressed boundless optimism with the gruff air of men in the grip of a half-Nelson.The second surprise, given India’s reputation as a land of red-hot start-ups and new entrepreneurs, was the dynastic nature of those...    
                     We’re from the government, and we’re here to help            IF YOU SIT in many places in India, whether in the office of the boss of Infosys in Bangalore or in a suburban home, your host may clutch a remote control and appear anxious. You are not the cause of this distress. Your host is waiting for a power cut, after which the remote will be used to switch the air conditioning back on. Power, more than any other industry, captures the prevalence of the state in Indian business—and the harm it can do. Private capital has poured into building power stations, but most other bits of the supply chain are in the hands of the state. Often this set-up fails to deliver.When people think of state capitalism, China springs to mind, with its giant and opaque government-controlled firms. But India, more cuddly and less competent, is not too dissimilar. Some 40% of the profits of its 100 biggest listed firms come from state-controlled ones. In finance, energy and natural resources, they control at least two-thirds of production. Most were partially privatised over the past two decades, letting in a small...    
                     A tale of two cities            IT’S NOT A movie set. Mumbai today really is a place where you can see Rolls-Royces bumping along pot-holed streets past naked children, in the shadow of billionaires’ personal skyscrapers. India’s capitalism is raw and sometimes ugly, but its private-sector firms are dynamic and mostly optimistic. If the country maintains its current rate of growth it is expected to become the world’s third-largest economy some time after 2030, and hundreds of millions of people will lift themselves out of poverty. But it is not a second China. Thanks to an exhausted and cranky state, for which there is no prospect of dramatic reform, much of the job of development will fall upon the private sector. India’s companies are refreshingly red-blooded, but more than other firms in the world they carry a giant responsibility.This special report has argued that after a decade of euphoria the business scene has sobered up, partly prompted by a sticky patch in the economy and the depression in the rich world. Over the past decade a new kind of capitalism has entrenched itself in India, in...    
    IT IS an impassioned, messy first draft of a reform bill for Britain’s raucous tabloid newspapers. The opening days of Lord Justice Leveson’s inquiry into the “culture, practice and ethics of the press” brought famous names together with grieving families. The thrill of glamorous witnesses ceded to awkward silences as the parents of Milly Dowler, a girl murdered in 2002, spoke of their horror at discovering that messages left on her mobile phone were among the many hacked by journalists at Rupert Murdoch’s  News of the World .Revelations about the Dowlers’ mistreatment caused outrage and sparked the inquiry. The  News of the World  is gone, together with many executives involved with it. James Murdoch, the senior Murdoch in News Corporation’s London operations, has stepped down from the boards which publish the  Sun , the  Times  and the  Sunday Times  and appears unlikely to run the media conglomerate soon.An investigation dealing with matters as varied as phone-hacking, illegal payments to police and relationships between the press and politicians has a bewilderingly wide focus. Some of the victims broadened it further. Hugh Grant, an actor, bashed newspapers which, he believes, obtained his medical records. He also claimed that the  Mail on...     
                               THOMAS COOK is having the worst year in its 170-year history. The firm, which started by selling British railway excursions and is now Europe’s second-biggest tour operator, has issued several profit warnings. In August it forced out Manny Fontenla-Novoa, its long-standing chief executive. Last month it had to renegotiate the terms of its gross debt burden with a syndicate of 17 banks that includes Britain’s four large high-street lenders. Then, on November 22nd, the company admitted that it needs to ask the banks for another £100m. Its shares slumped by three-quarters.At a time when holiday-booking is going online, Thomas Cook has spent the past few years (and lots of money) merging with high-street travel outfits in Britain and Europe. In August it merged with the travel arm of Britain’s Co-operative Group, adding another 460 shops. “The group focused too much on the commodity end of the business and didn’t develop its internet business sufficiently,” says Wyn Ellis at Numis Securities.Thomas Cook is now working on a new strategy for the ailing British market. It is also replacing its bosses again. The company...    
    SAMSON and Goliath, the two gantry cranes that dominate Belfast’s skyline, stand as reminders of the city’s former shipbuilding glory. The decline of heavy industry on the waterfront coincided with three decades of violence that made Northern Ireland repugnant to many outside investors. To quell the unrest, Westminster ploughed money into the province. Now, as violence recedes and public-sector cuts begin to bite, Northern Ireland is trying to rebalance its economy by encouraging foreign investment. It is trading heavily on one strength: education.                           Students in Northern Ireland perform exceptionally well in the GCSE exams taken mostly at the age of 16 and A-level exams taken mostly at the age of 18 (see chart). That is due in part to the province’s selective state schools, remnants of the grammar-school system that was abolished in most of England, Scotland and Wales during the 1960s and 1970s. Northern Ireland has few private schools.Perhaps because they have long feared discrimination at work, Catholics are particularly industrious at school. Those at the bottom of the educational heap tend to be white,...    
                     Suck in that tummy            THE British attach a good deal of cultural weight to beer and pubs. Commercial weight is sadly lacking. In 2010 beer drinking dipped by 4%, according to the British Beer and Pub Association, as youngsters knocked back more cider and older adults turned to wine. The same outfit reckons that, between 2008 and June this year, an average of 37 pubs a week called “last orders” for the final time. Yet, amid the gloom, new breeds of brewer and publican are multiplying like yeast cells.According to Iain Loe of CAMRA, a group dedicated to promoting good beer, 99 commercial breweries opened in Britain in the year to June 2010, boosting the total to 840. He reckons another 60 have started up since then. Some of these enterprises are tiny, but together they are gaining market share. Despite fewer pints being sunk overall, production by microbreweries and other small local beermakers grew by 8.8% in 2010.Britain has a great tradition of beermaking. But by the 1970s just 200 brewers remained in business as big outfits keen to exploit economies of scale to churn out newly-popular...    
                     Mr Miliband remembers his friends            THE clamour for change in the way political parties finance themselves has grown with successive scandals. The Labour Party was investigated for allegedly offering “cash for honours” in the closing stages of Tony Blair’s premiership, and remains accused of over-reliance on trade unions. For years the Conservatives were criticised for taking money from Lord Ashcroft, who runs businesses in Belize. Financial backers of both parties, and of the Liberal Democrats, are strewn across the benches of the House of Lords, stoking the popular suspicion that donations buy baubles and influence.Such is the degree of voter cynicism about money in politics that the three main parties all promised some kind of reform at the last general election. On November 22nd the independent Committee on Standards in Public Life, which has been looking at this issue for over a year, gave them some concrete ideas to work with. The reception was cool.The committee, chaired by Sir Christopher Kelly, a former civil servant, says that donations from any individual or...    
                     Its effect on the economy is even mightier            THREE decades ago a Conservative government led by Margaret Thatcher removed many of the props that had supported manufacturing, revealing its weakness and causing factories to collapse. Now manufacturing is modish. The business secretary, Vince Cable, talks of polishing the image of an industry associated with dirt and decline, and of rebalancing the economy away from financial services toward more tangible stuff. On November 17th David Cameron attended the launch of a new engineering prize and opened a factory in Surrey that will make 4,000 expensive supercars a year.In the early 1980s about 6m people worked in manufacturing; today the figure is barely 2.5m. Once-famous firms such as British Leyland, GEC and ICI have fallen apart or been taken over and dismembered. Stronger growth in other sectors means manufacturing has slumped from 25% of the economy to 11% today. Yet manufacturing output was rising before recession hit in 2008. Foreign firms like Nissan, Honda and Toyota opened car factories that became efficiency leaders in Europe,...    
                               PREPARE for some bad news. The prime minister, David Cameron, told an audience of business leaders on November 21st that shrinking the budget deficit was “proving harder than anyone envisaged.” His comments laid the ground for the chancellor, George Osborne, who makes his autumn statement on the economy and public finances on November 29th. The chancellor’s message is likely to be grim: a downgrade to official growth forecasts for next year and beyond seems certain. The coalition government’s hopes of eliminating the “structural” part of the deficit (the bit that cannot be blamed on temporary slack in the economy) and of capping public debt by the end of the current parliament are in serious doubt.Bond markets are likely to be forgiving, given the scale of troubles elsewhere. But a failure to hit its fiscal targets would harm the coalition government’s credibility. And there is a more pressing worry. Britain’s strong links with the wretched euro zone mean that its economy is being dragged into continent-wide recession (see  article...     
                               IF DAVID CAMERON is loathed by voters but grudgingly credited with economic competence, can he win the next general election? A few months ago the question would have sounded bizarre. Mr Cameron secured the Conservative leadership in 2005 with a pledge to decontaminate the party’s brand. Rescuing the “nasty party” was Mr Cameron’s mission, and he pursued it with well-bred cheer, whether being pulled by huskies across an Arctic glacier to show concern over climate change, talking of his devotion to the National Health Service or making the conservative case for gay marriage.With Britain seemingly headed back into recession, the prime minister finds himself at a turning point. Close allies, Conservative MPs and sympathetic think-tanks advise him that the quest for economic growth must trump all other considerations. Wish lists are pouring in from all sides, with a bias towards supply-side reforms aimed at making Britain a lightly-taxed, flexibly-regulated and competitive place to do business. All point to the same conclusion: that Mr Cameron might have to retoxify the Tory brand to save the economy.Suggestions...    
                     Population: 140,000 tree-huggers            ECOISLAND is a group so green that the invitations it sent to an event at Britain’s House of Commons were printed on recycled paper embedded with meadow-flower seeds (just plant, water and watch them grow). Its aim is to make the Isle of Wight, off Britain’s south coast, energy-independent by 2020. The island is often viewed as a quaint place a decade or so behind the times. But if the project, launched on November 15th, comes off, the Isle of Wight could be in the vanguard of an environmentally friendlier future.Ecoisland plans to install solar panels on roofs (the island is one of the sunniest places in England), insulate houses better, make greater use of geothermal, wind and tidal energy, and generate power from waste. There are also plans for electric vehicles that residents and visitors alike can hire. Locally grown food would be delivered through island-wide supply hubs. A concerted effort is under way to reduce water use and capture more rainwater (about one-third of the island’s fresh water at present is pumped from the mainland).This all seems...    
    THOUGH Britain is a small, densely populated island, it costs a lot to get around it. The petrol price stands at £1.34 a litre, just a few pence below its May peak. Grumbles are growing. On November 15th an electronic petition signed by more than 100,000 people prompted a debate in Parliament. MPs passed a motion calling on George Osborne, the chancellor, to scrap plans to put up fuel duty in January in line with inflation.The long-standing anger over prices has flared repeatedly. In 2000 truckers blocked refineries, prompting a run on petrol. Then, unemployment stood at 5% and inflation was low. People feel far more pinched now. Politicians ignore the current fuss at their peril.The price of fuel is controversial because Britain is car mad—three-quarters of miles travelled are by cars and vans—and because a large chunk of pump receipts go directly into government coffers. Taxes on fuel, including VAT, account for 63% of its cost. That is a slightly lower proportion than in Greece or Sweden, but far higher than in America, where raising fuel taxes is nonetheless said to be a “third rail”, deadly to politicians.Aware of petrol’s political potency, in March Mr Osborne cut duty by a penny per litre and delayed a further 3p of rises. He had previously touted the idea of a fuel “stabiliser” to smooth fluctuations in oil prices. He gave up that plan. Instead, he will raise taxes...    
    “TOP BOY”, a drama shown on Channel Four earlier this month, depicted a London housing estate awash with guns, gangs and illicit substances. Almost every young person who was not selling drugs seemed to be buying them. As television, it was rather good. As sociology, it was questionable. Compared with other English youngsters, Londoners are oddly abstemious.                           Surveys by the National Health Service show that Londoners aged between 11 and 15 are less likely to smoke than are youngsters in every other English region. They drink alcohol much more rarely (just 12% did so in the week before the survey, compared with between 19% and 26% in the other regions) and are no more likely to take illicit drugs. Another large-scale survey for the Department of Education rolls drink and drug use among young people into a single measure (see map). Again, London stands out for its sobriety.London’s teenagers may be lying. Other surveys show that people in their late teens and early 20s are slightly more likely to take drugs if they live in the capital (although, confusingly, Londoners become abstemious again in their 30s). Another...    
                               IT IS not often that the drugs scene produces good news for Britain, Europe’s perennial bad boy, but a report on November 15th from the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction offers a few scraps. After years leading the league tables on cannabis use, England and Wales fell below the EU average in 2010 for the first time. People aged between 15 and 34 no longer hold the big-country record for amphetamine use. The rate of drug-induced deaths remains high in a country where drug use is relatively widespread, but at least it has fallen.Domestic studies confirm this picture. As the chart shows, the proportion of young people who have used cannabis in the past year continues to decline from a peak in 1998, according to the British Crime Survey (BCS). Use of class A drugs such as cocaine and heroin has not declined as much, but prior-year use of powder cocaine fell by a third in the two years from 2008-09. Figures from the National Treatment Agency suggest that heroin and crack cocaine are mostly confined to an ageing cohort. National Health Service surveys show that schoolchildren aged between 11 and...    
                               ENGLAND’S schools are churning. Under Tony Blair’s academies programme, some 200 failing schools gained control over budgets, curriculum and working conditions. In May 2010 Michael Gove, the Conservative education secretary, allowed schools judged “outstanding” by the schools inspectorate to follow. More than 1,000 excellent schools and 200 poor ones have since converted. A third of secondary schools are now academies. They are joined by a clutch of “free schools” set up by parents, teachers and charities.Mr Gove’s idea is to free schools from the grip of local-authority control, making them more responsive to local parents—and raising standards. The OECD, a rich-country think-tank, suggests that children taught in autonomous schools do better than those who attend schools where teaching is tightly prescribed. Mr Blair’s academies have broadly improved, although that is perhaps to be expected: the worst schools got new head teachers and had nowhere to go but up. A secondary goal of Mr Gove’s reform was to enfeeble the powerful teachers’ unions by giving schools the freedom to override national agreements on staff pay and hours....    
    FOR decades the British have shrugged as their car manufacturers, energy firms, airports and even football teams have been bought by foreigners. On November 11th they lost their last major record label too, when EMI was sold.Terra Firma, a private-equity group, acquired EMI in 2007 with a plan to cut costs. But artists such as Radiohead left in protest at the stringent new regime and losses grew as the industry struggled with digitisation and rising piracy. Citigroup, the bank which financed Terra Firma’s acquisition and took control of EMI in February, has sold its recorded-music division to Universal Music, a French-owned label. Already the biggest company in the industry, Universal is expected to sell other assets to get around competition rules. EMI’s publishing arm, which owns the rights to over a million songs by artists old (The Pretenders) and new (Kasabian), went for £1.4 billion to a consortium led by Sony.EMI loomed over British pop for half a century. Its artists, including the Beatles, dominated the 1960s. It launched its own “British invasion” of America by buying Capitol Records (home to Frank Sinatra and the Beach Boys). When it fired a troublesome young act called the Sex Pistols, the rotters immortalised the label with a scathing song.   ...     
                     Your name’s not on the list, you’re not getting in            UNDER different circumstances, Theresa May and Brodie Clark might identify with each other’s dry, diligent (and some might say dull) approach to public life. As it is, the home secretary and the former head of Britain’s border force are squabbling over who is to blame for the alarming relaxation of passport controls revealed earlier this month.It will never be known how many undesirables entered Britain this year as the result of border staff not checking biometric passport chips or consulting the “warnings index” of terror suspects. Ms May was piloting a policy that eased checks on low-risk passengers, such as children from Europe. But, she claimed, Mr Clark had allowed staff to go further. Her account was supported by his boss, Rob Whiteman, who suspended him. Mr Clark then resigned on November 9th, claiming that such criticism had made his position untenable. He is suing the government for unfair dismissal.In front of a parliamentary committee on November 15th, Mr Clark denied that he had stretched the terms of the pilot. The...    
                               “WE are all in this together,” promises David Cameron’s government, as it tries to fix shattered public finances and set Britain on a path of sustainable growth.It matters that voters should believe this. Not because the claim will soothe those suffering most from spending cuts or lost employment. Instead, a sense of fairness is vital to the broad mass of voters who keep their jobs in even nasty recessions, and whose households will survive this crisis. Fairness gives the majority permission to support policies needed to fix the mess, but which will impose real pain on some.That is why it spelled danger for the government when new figures were released on November 16th, showing that youth unemployment had crossed the one million mark: its highest level in a generation. Several caveats surround that number. Youth unemployment has been rising in Britain since before the credit crunch. Within the headline total for jobless 16- to 24-year-olds, more than a quarter are students looking for part-time work. Britain’s youth unemployment rate is 21.9%—far below countries like Spain. The overall unemployment rate of 8.3%...    
                     Or perhaps that one            “THE toy industry has always reflected adult culture,” says Chris Byrne, an American toy-industry consultant. In the 1920s girls played with ironing boards because they expected later to iron their husbands’ shirts. The first 1950s Barbie dolls had two careers: fashion model and bride. So what do British toy shops say about the state of the nation today?Good news first: the British are generous. Parents buy many more toys for their offspring than do their continental counterparts. Britain is Europe’s biggest toy market, followed by France and Germany, according to Frédérique Tutt, an analyst at NPD EuroToys. British parents buy an average of 41 toys per year, which is almost a toy per week. In Spain, by contrast, children receive few toys outside the Christmas season.Less encouragingly, Britons seem highly susceptible to media conglomerates’ marketing campaigns. Britain’s toy market is similar to America’s in favouring entertainment over education, says Gerrick Johnson, a toy analyst at BMO Capital Markets. About one-quarter of toy sales in Britain are...    
    LONDON’S leisure industry hopes for a bonanza next July and August, thanks to the Olympics. To lure hordes of visitors, a campaign marketing Britain abroad has been launched with the slogan “You’re invited”. But they may not come.When Britain won the right to host the Olympics in 2005, ministers promised a windfall not just for sport but for tourism. Previous hosts held similar hopes, and were mostly disappointed. Since the 1992 Barcelona games, hosts have seen a fall in foreign guests during each Olympics, as well as in the months before and after, says the European Tour Operators Association (ETOA), a trade body. In Beijing, hotel bookings in August 2008 were 39% lower than they had been a year earlier.The belief that a city will be expensive and chock-a-block with sports fans can deter visitors. Official advice this time reinforces that notion: Transport for London, which runs most of the capital’s transit system, has asked locals to stockpile goods and stay at home to ease congestion.Fully 4.2m foreign tourists came to London in the summer of 2010, as well as 3m British ones. The government has belatedly acknowledged that it would be a shame to lose them. Speaking at a trade fair for the tourism industry on November 7th, Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, expressed confidence that Britain could “defy the tourism dip” other hosts have experienced.Early signs are not...    
                               INFERTILITY is a great leveller. Around 3,500 whites, blacks and Asians—some rich, some clearly not so rich, mostly in couples or accompanied by the odd would-be grandmother—crowded into the Fertility Show at the Olympia convention hall in west London last weekend in search of help. There were stalls offering holistic therapy, nutritional guidance, ovarian-reserve testing and the like. But the crowds appeared thickest around the stalls that advertised donated eggs for  in vitro  fertilisation. Most were foreign—from Spain, Cyprus, St Petersburg, Riga, Las Vegas, New England and Barbados. They were the tip of an iceberg.The world’s first  in vitro  baby was born in Oldham 33 years ago. But Britain is no longer a leader in the field. Today Britons are thought to make up one of the biggest contingents of the growing army of Europeans crossing borders for fertility treatment. Spain and the Czech Republic are their most frequent destinations, a sample survey led by two academics at De Montfort University found. The reason, says a spokeswoman for the Instituto Bernabeu in...    
                     Is the lady for turning?            AS A schoolgirl, Angela Merkel spent an entire swimming lesson perched on a diving board. Only when the final bell sounded did she find the nerve to take the plunge. “I am not spontaneously courageous,” the German chancellor later said. “I am, I think, courageous at the right moment,” but “led too much by my head” to leap recklessly in. For Margaret Heckel, author of a book about Mrs Merkel, the story shows that “she goes to her limits and then overcomes them.” She has a “very fundamental confidence in her abilities.”It is not widely shared. Mrs Merkel’s critics say she has reacted too little and too late to the euro crisis, which now threatens to trigger a worldwide recession as well as the single currency’s break-up. France’s prime minister, François Fillon, wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to buy bonds of shaky euro-zone governments on a grand scale. “But there’s a big problem, and that is to convince Germany.” The quip that Mrs Merkel is the only politician who can stop Barack Obama being re-elected attests both to her power and to frustration...    
    WITH her intense gaze, washed-out jeans and talk of freedom, Dilsat Aktas is a typical left-wing activist. In May the 29-year-old climbed onto an armoured police-carrier in Ankara to protest against the death of another activist, who had suffered a stroke after being sprayed with pepper gas in the Black Sea province of Hopa. Ms Aktas now hobbles around on crutches: the police clubbed her so hard as she tried to escape that they broke her left hip. “The doctor says it will take three years to fix,” she says, dragging on a cigarette.Her complaints to a local prosecutor were ignored. Omur Cagdas Ersoy, a fellow student, tried to shield her with his body, only to be flogged in his turn. Mr Ersoy is now in an Ankara jail, along with 15 fellow students, facing charges of belonging to an obscure left-wing armed faction that no longer exists. The evidence against the group includes seized left-wing tracts and anti-war posters, but not a single weapon. “They did find a broken umbrella, they took that too,” says Mr Ersoy’s father, Fatih, with a bitter laugh.Huseyin Aygun, a deputy from the opposition Republican People’s Party (CHP), claims that over 500 students are now in prison for alleged membership of terrorist groups. Many students were demonstrating against the ruling Justice and Development (AK) party and for free education and health care, though some backed neuralgic causes...    
                     Tusk closes the gap            FEW could doubt the political ability of Poland’s prime minister, Donald Tusk, who kept his job thanks to a thumping and unprecedented election win last month. But many would question his appetite for real reform. Poland’s economic strength in recent years belies a bloated bureaucracy, laxity in public finances and a clogged labour market.In his first stint in office, Mr Tusk merely nibbled at these problems. Instead he concentrated on securing successive victories for his centrist Civic Platform party over the opposition Law and Justice Party. Boosted by trade with Germany and a big budget deficit, the economy boomed on regardless.Now, with the economic prospects clouded by the euro crisis and his political capital at a high, Mr Tusk is at last talking tough. His programme, presented to parliament on November 18th, was studded with daring reforms. Raising the retirement age to 67 will mean two more years at work for men, seven for women. Mr Tusk wants to rejig the wasteful child-benefit system. And he plans to trim the huge tax perks enjoyed by such...    
                               THE bold fuchsia-pink and tangerine-orange stripes of the upholstery are shocking enough, but the really unsettling feature of the new trains on the Paris metro is the lack of a driver. Sit in front and you get a picture-window forward view as the train tears through a dark tunnel. This month, the first automatic trains went into service on line one, the capital’s busiest, running from La Défense to the Château de Vincennes. With trains guided remotely from a control room and protective platform-edge barriers, the new trains seem to operate entirely on their own.At a launch ceremony all the talk was of engineering and operational prowess. Paris already has driverless trains on line 14, the world’s first fully automatic underground line. But that was built from scratch. Never before has such an old line, this one dating to 1900, been re-equipped with reconfigured platforms and new electronics, for driverless trains. On a line that carries 725,000 passengers a day, and despite difficult talks with trade unions, all the work took place without a shutdown.The main aim is better service. By eliminating human error, driverless trains...    
    FOR those wanting to find evidence of the headstrong and self-defeating approach of Hungary’s government and especially its prime minister, Viktor Orban, the decision to storm out of talks with the IMF in July 2010 was a prime example. So now is this month’s U-turn: the reopening of talks with the Washington-based institution on securing a precautionary credit line (a kind of overdraft for solvent but cash-strapped countries).The move came after the Hungarian forint fell to a record low, successive bond auctions failed, and Standard & Poor’s, a ratings agency, said it was considering downgrading the country’s debt to junk status. The decision to go back to the IMF calmed the markets a little. But the effect was muffled by the clumsy way in which it was announced (neither the central bank nor even the IMF was consulted first).The government vigorously defends its record of the past 18 months. It decries the previous deal with the IMF (done in the depths of the 2008 crisis) as an example of “old-type forms of co-operation which were obstacles to our economic independence”. It blames its latest switch chiefly on turmoil in the euro zone.Fidesz, Mr Orban’s party, can justly claim to have inherited a mess from its Socialist predecessor. It has cut the deficit, not least by sequestering €10 billion ($13.5 billion) that Hungarians held in the private pillar of the state...    
                               IT IS an historic opportunity. Not since Felipe González’s Socialists swept to victory in 1982 has a Spanish leader been handed as big a mandate for change. On November 20th Mariano Rajoy’s People’s Party (PP) took 186 out of the 350 seats in the parliament, meaning that he has no need to barter with smaller parties. The PP’s control of two-thirds of regions and 40% of town halls should allow him to push reform throughout the system. A March poll in Andalusia, in the south, where the PP may end decades of Socialist hegemony, is the only election looming. Mr Rajoy enjoys both freedom and huge power.On the other hand, Spain’s problems are huge too: zero growth at best, bond yields near bail-out levels and unemployment at 23% (and 46% for youths). Reminders of the grim outlook have come daily since Mr Rajoy’s victory. The small Bank of Valencia has had to be rescued. Funcas, a think-tank, predicts a 0.5% drop in GDP next year. And bond yields keep breaking unwelcome records. Only urgent action can ease the pressure. But it cannot come before late December, when the handover of power is complete. Until then, José...    
                               THE designers of the good ship euro wanted to create the greatest liner of the age. But as everybody now knows, it was fit only for fair-weather sailing, with an anarchic crew and no lifeboat. Its rules of economic seamanship were rudimentary, and were broken anyway. When it struck a reef two years ago, the water flooded one compartment after another.“The situation is extremely serious, more so perhaps than at any point in the last 18 months,” José Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, said this week. He announced two last-ditch initiatives to avert doom. One is a “green paper” on options for joint Eurobonds. To balance this mutualisation of debt, he also proposed stronger monitoring of national budgets by Brussels, including the right to recommend changes before they are submitted to parliaments, and fiercer oversight of countries “in severe difficulties”.Renaming Eurobonds as stability bonds, the green paper is almost an act of insubordination against Angela Merkel, Germany’s chancellor. She is strongly against the idea and has also declared that only a treaty change can impose enough rules to ward...    
                     Bouncing, nervously, into power            FOR a taste of the real Spain, try Castile-La Mancha. This is the land of Manchego cheese and saffron. The vast plains are dotted with the windmills at which Don Quixote once tilted. Squatting incongruously among them is a €1.1 billion ($1.5 billion) white elephant: Ciudad Real’s airport. Other than the chirping of autumn crickets, the silence is absolute. The last commercial flights ceased at the end of October (the airport remains open to private planes). The only signs of life at the visitor centre are bats in the ventilation shafts.This airport tells a tale about Spain. In the past decade, during  e  l boom , money poured in, inflating a huge construction bubble. Grand infrastructure projects like Ciudad Real airport sprouted. Many of Spain’s 17 regional governments channelled cash into trophy schemes—universities, art galleries, high-speed rail—with no concern for whether they would pay their way. They were abetted by the  cajas , small unlisted savings banks, often with opaque...    
                     Reform Russia? Me?            THE SWANKY equestrian club outside Moscow where Vladimir Putin hosted foreign academics and analysts for the annual Valdai dinner on November 11th exudes wealth and confidence. With a solarium and organic oats for the horses, and French haute cuisine and an 1880 Armagnac for their owners, the club shows the benefits of Mr Putin’s 12-year rule as president and prime minister. It is also redolent of the power he wants for 12 more years after returning as president in March.Strolling in only two-and-a-half hours late, Mr Putin appeared fit, confident and relaxed. But he offered little by way of new ideas, vision or plans for his next term. Challenged with the view that Russia and its exhausted political system were heading towards stagnation, he disarmingly said, “I have nothing to object to in what you are saying”, adding later that “our system is not perfect.” But he then argued once again for all the advantages brought by his rule. “There was a civil war in this country in the early and mid-1990s…the economy and the social sphere were in an utter collapse.”In fact...    
    THE hopes at NATO’s 2010 Lisbon summit that Russia might be a partner in the missile-defence system meant to protect Europe from a nuclear-armed “rogue” state are looking increasingly forlorn. NATO governments had promised “to explore opportunities for missile-defence co-operation with Russia in a spirit of reciprocity, maximum transparency and mutual confidence.” But at his Valdai dinner on November 11th, Russia’s prime minister, Vladimir Putin, claimed that the Russian ambassador to NATO, Dmitry Rogozin, had been told by an American senator that missile defence was aimed at Russia’s nuclear deterrent. Mr Putin even drew a diagram on a napkin to make his point.At this week’s meeting of the NATO-Russia Council, a body meant to improve relations, Russia’s deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, was equally blunt. He complained that NATO was pressing ahead even though Russia’s conditions for co-operation had not been met. Chief among his gripes was America’s refusal to give Russia a legal guarantee—in effect a treaty—that NATO’s missile shield would never be used to protect Europe or America from Russian nuclear weapons. He suggested that Russia might take “military-technical measures”.The heart of the problem is a lack of trust, made worse by what Russia sees as NATO’s cynically broad interpretation of the UN Security Council resolution on Libya—a “betrayal”, say some...    
                               IN ITALY things seldom happen abruptly. Italians prefer compromise, half-measures and gradual change. But in just four days in mid-November, the pendulum of Italian public life has swung giddily from one extreme to another. Silvio Berlusconi, a prime minister notorious for his buffoonery, scandalous private life and iffy business methods, has given way to a sober, monogamous academic and former European commissioner, Mario Monti.The TV mogul’s cabinet included a former calendar girl, a minister who walked a pig on land earmarked for a mosque and another said to have links to the Cosa Nostra. The new government sworn in on November 16th has the chairman of NATO’s military committee, Admiral Giampaolo Di Paola, as defence minister; the boss of Italy’s biggest retail bank, Corrado Passera, as minister for economic development and infrastructure; and no fewer than seven professors, including the prime minister, out of a cabinet of 17. Mr Monti himself takes the finance portfolio.Only one of three women in the Berlusconi government had a heavyweight job. All three of those in Mr Monti’s will have onerous...    
                     Beauty above, mean streets below            A SHORT walk from the yachts and fishing boats of the old port, in a maze of streets known as Noailles, the local Socialist mayor is checking on street crime. Passing shops selling Afro hair extensions, yams, halal meat and tagine pots, Patrick Mennucci hears a litany of complaints. One man grumbles about a nightly poker game on car bonnets, another about illicit alcohol-trading, a third about rubbish in the gutter. The mayor will take their grievances to the police chief. “We want families to live in this neighbourhood,” he insists. “I don’t want it to become the Bronx.”Marseille has been hit by a new crime wave. In the first half of 2011, the local department recorded a 40% increase in armed robbery and a 9% rise in murders. In June a man was gunned down in a bar on the port. Weeks later, another was shot dead in a cyber café. In September a man was sprayed with machinegun fire. There have been 71 murders in six months, with talk of a city abandoned to violent lawlessness. The public prosecutor has even compared Marseille to the...    
    THE murderers’ boasts are as chilling as their crimes. From 2000 to 2006 the “National Socialist Underground”, an unknown group with just three core members, apparently killed nine people, eight of them of Turkish origin. In 2007 they shot a policewoman in the head. They claim credit for a 2004 bombing in Cologne that injured 22 people, mostly Turkish. A mocking video celebrates all this but has little to say about the group’s goals, promising “deeds, not words”.The end came on November 4th when Uwe Mundlos and Uwe Böhnhardt staged the last of some 14 bank robberies in Eisenach, in Thuringia. They set their mobile home on fire and apparently shot themselves as the police closed in. Beate Zschäpe, their female comrade, turned herself in after torching the group’s house in Zwickau in Saxony. Yet this was no triumph for the law enforcers. The far-right trio were long known to Thuringia’s intelligence agency. They disappeared in 1998 on the point of being arrested. Nobody linked them to the “doner murders”, so called because two victims worked in kebab shops.The authorities “trivialise” right-wing violence, says Hajo Funke, who studies it. Today’s violent right is the offspring of unification in 1990, which disrupted the eastern economy and traumatised families. The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, the domestic intelligence service, thinks 25,000 people...    
                               ANGELA MERKEL, the German chancellor, did her best to revive Germany’s European spirit this week. At the congress of her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Leipzig, she spoke of past wars and of modern Europe’s role in building peace. She hailed her predecessors, Konrad Adenauer and Helmut Kohl, for uniting Europe and Germany. And she appealed to self-interest: Germans’ prosperity depended on Europe’s well-being. Now that Europe faced its “darkest hour since the second world war”, it was time to push for more integration to save the euro. “The task of our generation is to complete economic and monetary union, and build political union in Europe, step by step.” The rebirth of European federalism in Germany? Not quite.Mrs Merkel’s rhetoric was oddly empty and detached from events across Europe. She ignored the call by France’s Nicolas Sarkozy to turn the euro zone into the “federal” core of the European Union along with his divisive notion of breaking away from the ten non-euro members (many of them Germany’s neighbours). She seemed oblivious to strident British demands for the repatriation of EU powers. On...    
                     Beans on toast for dinner?            SHORTLY after he was elected president in 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy marched uninvited into a meeting of European Union finance ministers in Brussels to declare that France was postponing by two years its commitment to balance its budget. Even as the financial crisis set in a year later, he banned the term “austerity”, a word that was said to scare the faint-hearted French. But now, with France’s AAA credit rating still on the line, Mr Sarkozy is reinventing himself as a champion of fiscal prudence.On November 7th the government unveiled its second austerity plan in three months. This one promises savings worth an extra €7 billion ($9.5 billion) in 2012, on top of the €11 billion announced at an emergency budget meeting in August. The new measures do not alter the timing of France’s plan for the public finances: the deficit should still fall to 4.5% of GDP next year, and 3% in 2013. But the faltering economy means France needs an extra effort in order to meet these targets. In an interview last month, Mr Sarkozy conceded that GDP growth in 2012 would reach...    
                     Milic is coming to a screen near you            IN THE centre of Sarajevo, Bosnia’s capital, a gleaming piece of Arabic script adorns the top of a new building. This is the logo of Al Jazeera, the Qatari network that has changed the face of television news since it was founded 15 years ago. Inside the building, carpenters and technicians are putting the finishing touches to the offices. But this is not just another foreign bureau.Al Jazeera’s Balkan service goes live on November 11th. This will be the second foreign-language station the network has opened, after Al Jazeera English in 2006. But what language is it? Journalists will be broadcasting in “their” language, say station bosses. This tongue used to be called Serbo-Croatian; now it goes by a number of names: Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian or Montenegrin. (Think New Zealand, Scottish and American versions of English.) The target audience for the channel will be the former Serbo-Croatian speaking regions of the ex-Yugoslavia. But plenty of Macedonians and Slovenes understand the language, as do older Kosovo Albanians.Tarik Djodjic, the...    
                               WALK along the shore of the Caspian sea in Azerbaijan’s capital, Baku, and you smell oil in the air. You can also see it, or rather its effects: in the marble balustrade along a wide promenade, in the floodlit fountains, in the Tiffany and Gucci boutiques, in the London black cabs (repainted purple) ordered by the government, and in a vast state flag atop the tallest flagpole in the world, flying over the site where the arena for next year’s Eurovision song contest is being built.An oil windfall since the main export pipeline began operations in 2006 has transformed an unloved Soviet city into a glitzy capital, often with locals evicted from their houses. The oil money has entrenched an autocratic and corrupt political system that is resistant to change.Azerbaijan is run by Ilham Aliyev. He inherited the presidency from his late father, Heydar, a shrewd KGB general who had also run Azerbaijan in Soviet times. When the son took over in 2003 many saw him as a Moscow-educated “golden youth” who lacked his father’s skills. But in the past few years he has consolidated power, suppressed opposition, eliminated...    
                               IT TOOK several days of back-and-forth talks, missed deadlines and public and private outrage, but Greece finally has a new prime minister. On November 10th Lucas Papademos, a former vice-president of the European Central Bank, was named to replace George Papandreou, who had pledged to stand down four days earlier. The decision meant Greece had come full circle in less than a working week: on November 7th Mr Papademos had looked like a shoo-in for the job before negotiations went sour.It may have taken a while to reach, but the choice at least looks sensible. Mr Papademos, an academic economist and a member of no political party, has the reputation to reassure Greece’s bail-out partners, and his financial expertise should prove useful when it comes to implementing the complexities of the looming 50% haircut private holders of Greece’s bonds must suffer, under a deal struck in Brussels on October 26th.The last casualty of this week’s wrangling was Philippos Petsalnikos, the speaker of parliament. A German-speaker skilled at keeping Greek lawmakers in order, he looked like a dead certainty to replace Mr...    
                               MUCH of Europe has pneumonia. How is that affecting Germany, the continent’s biggest economy? Exports are surprisingly buoyant considering the European pandemonium; they rose by 0.9% in September. But industrial production dropped by 2.7% in September and new orders, a harbinger of future output, fell by 4.3%, the third monthly decline in a row.Business is bracing for harder times. Expectations have been falling since February, according to the Ifo Business Survey. The biggest problem is the euro crisis, which is playing havoc with Germany’s trading partners. Industrial orders from the euro zone plunged by 12.1% in September. Demand will also wane from Asia and eastern Europe, which have been Germany’s fastest-growing markets. Exports make up around half of the country’s GDP, so a slowdown is inevitable. On November 9th the government’s advisory council of economic “wise men” predicted that growth would shrink from 3% this year to 0.9% in 2012. They expect near-stagnation until the middle of 2012. Some pundits think the economy will shrink.This may look like poetic justice to peripheral euro-zone countries, which...    
                     It’s lovely in the summer            “I AM almost full for next summer”, boasts Mike Aghjayan, an Armenian from Lebanon who is managing a new hotel in the town Azeris call Shusha and Armenians Shushi. Visitors, mostly diaspora Armenians, will come from the United States, Canada, France, Russia, Lebanon and Iran. In 1988 this was a pleasant hilltop town, home to 15,000. Today barely 4,000 live on amid the ruins of war. His guests, Mr Aghjayan explains, “want to see the land people gave their blood for.”Nagorno-Karabakh is often described as one of several post-Soviet “frozen conflicts”. However, as the war in 2008 between Russia and Georgia over the breakaway territory of South Ossetia showed, ice can melt quickly. In Soviet times Nagorno-Karabakh was a mostly Armenian-populated autonomous enclave inside Azerbaijan, some 4,000 square kilometres (1,540 square miles) big. Conflict erupted in 1988 as the territory’s Armenians sought to secede from Azerbaijan. By the time the war ended in 1994, the victorious Armenians had doubled the enclave’s size and carved out a land corridor to Armenia...    
    ALMOST 80 years after the repeal of Prohibition, the sale of wine and spirits remains partly or wholly in government hands in a third of America’s states. But in these tough times economic considerations are starting to outweigh moral concerns. On November 8th Washington’s voters approved plans to privatise the state’s 328 liquor outlets and open the business to warehouse stores and supermarkets. Budget planners think the change could bring in an extra $80m a year from licence fees. The victory for the Yes campaign—secured with $22.5m from Costco, a warehouse-store chain, the record for a donation to a Washington ballot initiative—reduces the number of controlled states to 17, following similar moves by West Virginia and Iowa years ago. Other states considering opening the spigots include North Carolina, Virginia and Pennsylvania.Opponents will not give up without a fight. They wield studies that point to increases in consumption and car accidents after laws are loosened. But nowhere is liberalisation resisted more staunchly than in Mormon-dominated Utah, where even strong beer has to be sold through publicly owned stores. Its restrictive distribution system is under the spotlight thanks to an ongoing bid-rigging scandal at the state-run alcohol monopoly. But the forces arrayed against reform are strong, including the speaker of the state Senate and anti-drink-driving...    
                               IN CALIFORNIA it is the worst of times, it is the best of times; but the worst is the more salient. The state’s non-partisan legislative analyst, Mac Taylor, has now given the lie to the gimmicky budget the governor, Jerry Brown, and the legislature agreed to in June. They had, rather desperately, chosen to assume that billions in new revenues would materialise. None of them did, said Mr Taylor, who expects receipts to be $3.7 billion behind forecast. He projects a new two-year gap of $13 billion for this and the coming fiscal years—about 15% of the current budget, which itself is about a fifth smaller than it was when the recession struck.Mr Taylor’s analysis has a dire consequence. It necessitates automatic “trigger cuts” (if the state’s finance director confirms his conclusion next month, which is likely). This means that schools, universities, welfare recipients and other vulnerable Californians will lose yet more funding. A school year that is, at 175 days, already one of the shortest in the industrialised world could drop another week. Some schools would lose bus services, leaving (mainly poor) pupils...    
                               THE failure by Congress’s joint select committee to produce a deficit plan was greeted with widespread disappointment, but little shock. Voters had long expected failure. Wall Street had predicted at best a small deal. Deprived of even that, stocks fell November 21st, the day the committee announced its failure, but soon turned their attention back to Europe.Superficially the lack of alarm was understandable. The showdown between Republicans and President Barack Obama over the debt ceiling in August could have forced the federal government to renege immediately on its bills. In contrast, the law that established the “supercommittee” dictates that without a deficit plan, $1.2 trillion in spending cuts spread over domestic and defence programmes (a “sequester”) be triggered, but not until 2013.However, the implications of the committee’s failure are more disturbing than the reaction of the markets has let on. It leaves a series of landmines in the path of the economy over the next 14 months while leaving America’s longer-term fiscal challenges unaddressed. It also further entrenches Democrats and Republicans in...    
    CRANES clutter the skyline along northern Virginia’s busy thoroughfares. On a Friday evening, holiday shoppers throng Northpark Centre mall in Dallas, Texas, buying Lego and luxury soap as a pianist picks out pop songs. Tables in the better restaurants on the Westside of Los Angeles cannot be booked without Hollywood connections. In places, America shows clear signs of returning to a kind of economic normality.Not long ago, a double-dip into recession seemed possible. On November 22nd, the Bureau of Economic Analysis revised its estimate for GDP growth in the third quarter down, though still to a 2.0% annual rate, from the earlier reported 2.5%. According to another measure of output, gross domestic income, growth was only barely positive in the second and third quarters of the year. Yet an improved outlook for at least the near future is now showing up all over the economic data.America’s trade deficit declined for the third month running in September, thanks to rising exports. Industrial production rose strongly in October. Mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures continue to tick downward. The market for owner-occupied homes remains weak, but construction of multi-family residential units, which are attractive to renters, may end the year up over 50% from 2010. Residential building improvements are touching record highs.   ...     
    THE old-timers down by Bubbly Creek were hoping to land catfish for dinner. On a sunny afternoon they were fishing on a southern fork of the Chicago River made famous by Upton Sinclair in his social-realist novel of 1906, “The Jungle”. Sinclair described how offal and waste from the meatpacking industry had created a river so vile that putrid gas bubbled up from the bottom and made the river literally combustible. Today, the river hardly ever bubbles but the pollution remains so serious that the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has ordered the state of Illinois to clean it up. Earlier this month, the EPA and the state finally agreed over how clean the river should be.Until recently the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (MWRD)—the agency responsible for dealing with the city’s sewage and storm water—had always insisted that the river was little more than a series of canals for shipping and drainage of storm water and municipal effluent. The previous head of the MWRD fought long and hard against tough and expensive water-quality standards. Most memorably, he once argued that if the water were made cleaner, accidental drownings would increase.In the end sense prevailed and Chicago will finally lose the unwelcome distinction of being the only big American city that fails to disinfect its sewage. The MWRD, one of the world’s largest...    
                               AS THIS week’s deadline approached for the congressional “supercommittee” to agree on how to trim the deficit, each party tried to put pressure on the other with claims of dubious veracity. Republicans aired exaggerated figures for the proportion of government spending that is borrowed, ranging from 40% to 43% (the true figure this year was 36.1%, projected to fall to 27% in 2012). John Kerry, meanwhile, said that the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles deficit-reduction plan proposed a year ago would have raised an extra $2 trillion in revenue; it actually predicted just under $1 trillion.Have you yawned yet? The truth is not always gripping stuff. But somebody has to tell it, to keep political discourse from going entirely off the rails. That is the theory behind PolitiFact.com and FactCheck.org, the two best-known of various sites that trawl through politicians’ public statements and dig out their lies, evasions and economies with the truth (FactCheck for the borrowing percentage, PolitiFact over Mr Kerry’s revenue inflation). And as election season heats up and the fibs start flying thick and fast, they hope to be in the vanguard...    
                     Ready to face New York            ONE question that worries many visitors to defensivecarry.com, a website devoted to the delights and pitfalls of life with a hidden gun, is whether their “concealed-carry” permits will be valid outside the state in which they are issued. Can they take their guns on holiday with them? Can they pack them in their checked bags for a flight? What if their plane is diverted to a spot like New York, which makes it exceedingly difficult to carry a gun? And if they cannot bring their guns with them, how will they defend themselves and their loved ones when threatened?Gun-rights activists have a simple solution: require all states to honour one another’s concealed-carry permits. There is no reason to suppose, says Andrew Arulanandam of the National Rifle Association (NRA), that a person considered fit to carry a gun in one state would suddenly become a menace to society on entering another. Many states already have such reciprocal agreements, without any obvious ill effects, he adds. The House of Representatives agrees: earlier this month it approved a bill that...    
                               IN THE summer of 2010 Admiral Mike Mullen, then still chairman of America’s joint chiefs of staff, said that the biggest security threat facing the nation was the national debt. The proposition that military strength depends in the long run on economic health is hardly controversial. But the admiral cannot have foreseen the astonishing sequence of budget negotiations that have paralysed Congress this past year. In the latest twist this week, Democrats and Republicans on Congress’s so-called “supercommittee” failed to agree on a plan to reduce the budget deficit, thereby exposing the defence budget to the prospect of a decade’s worth of deep spending cuts.The Budget Control Act that Congress passed in August stipulated that if the supercommittee failed, government spending would be cut automatically by some $1.2 trillion, with the axe falling most heavily on the Pentagon. Add this “sequestration” to the $350 billion of cuts already agreed on this summer, and the Defence Department is looking at losing up to $1 trillion, almost a fifth of the total, from its spending plans in the ten years from 2013. Leon Panetta,...    
                     Thierry and friend            IF ALL goes to plan, on November 20th David Beckham will lift the Major League Soccer Cup and provide a storybook ending to his American adventure. The English soccer star has yet to deliver much on-field success, but LA Galaxy, the team that he joined on a record-breaking salary (for America) in 2007, has been dominant this year and enters the final as hot favourite. Victory will add to the clamour for him to sign a new deal, but the smart money is on Mr Beckham, 36, playing out what is left of his career back in Europe, perhaps for the Qatari-bankrolled Paris Saint-Germain.When Major League Soccer (MLS) recruited Mr Beckham, it was more interested in what he could do off the field. Unlike any soccer player before him, the former Manchester United and Real Madrid midfielder had figured out how to commercialise his fame through a range of endorsements. Aspiring footballers might want to “bend it like Beckham”, but America’s aspiring league wanted to brand it like him. The cost of doing so, some $250m, was spread evenly among the then 14 MLS teams (there are...    
    ON NOVEMBER 3rd, surprisingly, a bill was passed by the House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. The Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act aims to make it easier for small businesses to raise money through “crowdfunding”. For the first time ordinary investors would be allowed to put up to $10,000 in small businesses that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, enabling Joe Schmo to win big if the company becomes the next Google.Some non-profits and small businesses already raise money through crowdfunding. Websites allow entrepreneurs to post information about their business plan and to offer perks, such as T-shirts, in return for “donations”; but current securities laws allow only “accredited investors”, rich folk supposedly aware of risks of the venture, to buy a financial stake in the business. In spite of this crowdfunding has thrived. Slava Rubin of IndieGoGo, one of the first crowdfunding websites to launch, three years ago, reckons around 250 competitors have sprung up.Brian Lamb of Satarii, which sells a device that helps people film themselves with their iPods, raised around $25,000 through IndieGoGo. Their successful online campaign helped attract a further $650,000 from sophisticated “angel” investors. But Mr Lamb thinks they would have been able to raise even more if average investors had been allowed a stake in the firm....    
                               ASK any Republican presidential candidate, and they will tell you without hesitation: America’s border with Mexico is as leaky as a sieve. Mitt Romney thinks all 1,969 miles (3,169km) of it must be fenced. Michele Bachmann wants a double fence. Rick Perry was pilloried for suggesting that in some rugged areas, more “aviation assets in the ground” might be better than fencing. Bemused by such talk, Barack Obama joked earlier this year that Republicans would not be happy until there was a moat full of alligators to keep illegal immigrants at bay. A few months later Herman Cain said there should be an electrified fence, with a charge strong enough to kill. He later explained that he too was joking, but would never apologise for standing up for America.At the border itself, all this talk seems otherworldly. At a “processing centre” in El Paso, where the fingerprints of those caught crossing from Mexico illegally are taken and checked against various databases, there is precious little processing going on. Of the 20-odd workstations, only two are manned. The Border Patrol agents sitting at them chat idly to themselves...    
                               RESIDENTS of Albuquerque, New Mexico, may, if they so desire, log on to their city’s website to discover that their mayor, Richard Berry, charged $26.75 on his city-issued credit card for AT&T service in September, and that he has earned $91,871 so far this year. If this sounds fascinating, why stop there? Daniel Marzec, an intern, made $5,132. Indeed, as of last month, the name and salary of each of the more than 6,000 city employees is posted online. The city’s vendor contracts, expense reports and various other things have already been there for about a year. Benefits packages are next, says Mr Berry.He is very proud of this transparency. Albuquerque’s first Republican mayor in three decades, Mr Berry is, at 49, an up-and-coming sort. A self-professed wonk (“I will put GPS systems into garbage trucks for better routing”), he based his 2009 campaign on clean government, in a city and state that “was not known for its transparency and accountability”, as he puts it. Now he would like to be seen as a leader of a national movement.In a sense he is. Michael Barnhart, president of Sunshine Review, a wiki...    
                               IF YOU can’t think of anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all. That, more or less, seems to have been the philosophy behind the State Department’s decision, after careful consideration of the pros and cons of a proposed oil pipeline from Canada to Texas, to make no decisions until after next year’s presidential elections. Thus Barack Obama can face the voters without having passed judgment on a project that had prompted a showdown between the business lobby and environmentalists.Businesses and the unions like the proposed Keystone XL pipeline because it would generate orders and jobs—20,000 of them, says TransCanada, the firm behind the scheme. Environmentalists dislike it because it would be filled with oil from Alberta’s tar sands, the extraction of which involves copious emissions of greenhouse gases. To bolster their case, each side has marshalled secondary arguments: that the pipeline would enhance America’s energy security by displacing imports from unfriendly places, in the case of the pros, and that it would imperil a huge aquifer in Nebraska, for the cons.In the end, it was concerns about the...    
                     Cleaner than it looks            A PRAIRIE wind whips the flags that fly from a Chesapeake Energy rig near Kingfisher, Oklahoma, but the noise of the drill drowns out the weather. A clutch of roughnecks, smudged with dirt and tattoos, are coring the earth, bringing up a little slice from the shale formation below. If the tests prove promising, the well will be hydraulically fractured or “fracked”.That process is transforming the natural-gas industry. Ten years ago virtually all of America’s natural-gas production came from traditional gas or oil wells reached by vertical drills. But companies were learning how to drill horizontal wells and how to use high-pressure water to break up the shale formations to release the gas inside. Such techniques have become increasingly cost-effective as companies have got more practice. In 2009, according to the Energy Information Administration, about 14% of America’s natural gas came from shale. By 2035 that is projected to rise to 46%. At the current rate of consumption, between shale and the conventional sources, the United States could have enough natural...    
    AMERICANS pay a federal fuel tax of 18.4 cents per gallon. That amount was set in 1993, when the average new passenger car on American roads got 28.4 miles per gallon (mpg), and the best-selling American car got 18mpg in the city and 27 on highways. In 2010 the average new passenger car got 33.7mpg. The best-selling car got 22mpg in the city and 33 on highways.                           And just as cars are growing more fuel-efficient, Americans are driving less. In 2010 they drove just under three trillion miles—less than they did in 2006. While better fuel-efficiency is good news for Americans’ wallets and less driving good for the country’s air, for its highways and mass-transit systems, it is something of a disaster.That is because federal funds, mostly derived from fuel-tax revenue, account for 22% of all highway funding and 17% of mass-transit funding nationally (with the rest coming from state and local governments). Fuel taxes go into the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), which was created in 1956 to finance highway construction nationally. The HTF still spends most of its funds on highway and bridge maintenance and construction, but...    
                               CAN something inevitable also be highly improbable? That is the question raised by the arrival this week of Newt Gingrich at the front of the pack in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. It was inevitable, after the successive implosions of Rick Perry and Herman Cain, that Republican voters desperate to nominate anyone but Mitt Romney would cast their eyes down the list and alight on one of the last remaining contenders.And what, after all, is so very wrong with Mr Gingrich? Unlike Mr Cain, the man has been a serious politician—Speaker of the House, no less, and architect of the Republican resurgence of the mid-1990s. Unlike Mr Perry, Mr Gingrich does not go blank in the middle of television debates. If anything he has during the recent debates been a bit of a star, albeit a dark one, sneering contemptuously at the “absurd” gotcha questions posed by the journalists. And although nobody can accuse him of wearing his learning lightly, he does at least have a goodly amount of it, darting apparently effortlessly in discussion from the minutiae of federal social policy to the grand sweep of world...    
    AT HIS inauguration in January 2008, Philadelphians waited for up to four hours outside City Hall to shake newly-elected Michael Nutter’s hand. He promised a “new day and a new way.” And in many ways he fulfilled that promise, despite being hampered by a weak economy and an often unco-operative city council. With Democrats still outnumbering Republicans in the city by six to one, it was no surprise that he was easily re-elected on November 8th. The last time a Republican was the mayor of Philadelphia was in 1952. Mr Nutter won 75% of the vote, soundly beating two weak challengers. Turnout was very low, at about 18%. But even so, it seems clear that Philadelphians want Mr Nutter to finish what he set out to do.He took office with ambitious goals. He promised to lower the murder rate by 30-50%. Philadelphia, a city whose name means brotherly love, is still one of America’s most violent. In 2007 there were 392 killings. Although the rate has fallen by an impressive 20%, already this year there have been 282 murders, a shockingly high number for a city of 1.5m people. Violent crime is at its lowest since 1992, all the more remarkable given that police overtime has been cut as have police academy classes. The city prison population is down by 11% since 2009. Perhaps most telling, according to one poll, Philadelphians worry less about crime than in 2009.The big worry for...    
                     A word in your ear…            JERRY BROWN, aged 73, likes to joke that he is not only California’s governor but also its “best pension buy”. After all, he has spent much of his life in public service (including a first stint as governor from 1975 to 1983), but neither draws a public pension nor plans to, if he can get himself re-elected. Nonetheless, his commitment to fixing California’s daunting public-pension problem has been in doubt. A Democrat, he was elected one year ago in a race against a self-financed Silicon Valley billionaire, largely with the help of independent spending by public-sector unions. The question has been whether he can stare down his own allies, those unions, and pass the necessary reform.Mr Brown has now released a plan. Initial reactions suggest that he may pass his test: the unions were outraged, many Democratic legislators (often beholden to the unions) felt awkward, and several Republican legislators were supportive. But now everything is in flux, as all parties choose their tactics for the fight.The main changes Mr Brown proposes concern new employees of state or...    
                     A dish best served after 14 years            WHEN the allegations of sexual harassment first surfaced, one of Herman Cain’s lines of defence, apart from asserting that he had never harassed any woman in his life, was that he could not respond to anonymous allegations. That particular line of reasoning is no longer available to the Republican presidential candidate after two of the women came forward this week to give their stories.First, on November 7th, came Sharon Bialek (pictured), who popped up at a press conference in New York, with a celebrity lawyer in tow, to claim that Mr Cain groped her in 1997 when he was running the National Restaurant Association and she was seeking a job. She said that, in a car after dinner and drinks, Mr Cain had stuck his hand beneath her skirt, reached for her genitals and pulled her head towards his crotch. Though he desisted when she told him that was not what she wanted, she accuses him of responding: “You want a job, right?”.Next to surface, a day later, was Karen Kraushaar, the hitherto unnamed employee of the restaurant association who had received...    
                               IT WILL, says Hugo Chávez (pictured), be “the most important political event to have occurred in our America in 100 years or more.” Well hardly. But the inaugural get-together of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, a 33-country outfit known as CELAC from its initials in Spanish, to be held in Caracas on December 2nd and 3rd, does reveal how Latin America is changing.For a start the influence of the United States is declining in a region it once called its “backyard”. The new body includes all the countries of the Americas except the United States and Canada. Meanwhile, the Organisation of American States (OAS), which includes them, is in such disarray that it may not survive. Brazil, Venezuela and Republicans in the US Congress have all either withheld, or have threatened to cut, funding for the OAS, for differing reasons. The clout of Spain, once seen as a model by Latin America’s restored democracies, is also receding: only half the heads of state bothered to turn up last month at an Ibero-American summit, a Spanish-inspired annual event.Yet, the proliferation of regional bodies does...    
    BACK in 1994, when he was a newly elected member of Parliament for the Reform Party and keen to change the way politics was done in Ottawa, Stephen Harper argued that Canadians were among the most over-represented people in the world and that the number of seats in the House of Commons should be reduced. As prime minister of a Conservative government with majorities in both houses of Parliament, he seems to have changed his mind. The Fair Representation bill, which the government introduced last month and is pushing to get through Parliament before Christmas, will add 30 MPs to the tally of 308.The western provinces of Alberta and British Columbia, where the population is rising fast, will each get six extra seats. But Ontario will get another 15 and Quebec three. Tim Uppal, the junior minister piloting the measure, said that it will move Canada closer to the elusive goal of representation by population, last met a century ago. Just redistributing the existing number of seats to reflect the westward population shift, as the opposition Liberals propose, cannot be done because it would create winners and losers, Mr Uppal candidly conceded.Mr Harper’s is hardly the first federal government that for the sake of peace with the provinces wants only winners to emerge from the redistricting, which takes place every ten years following a national census. Its room for manoeuvre is...    
    FIVE years ago next week, Felipe Calderón took office as Mexico’s president and launched a crackdown against organised crime. Since then there has been a horrible predictability about the country’s drug war: each year the number of deaths has risen, most of them concentrated in a handful of cities. But this year both those tendencies look as if they have started to change. The annual death toll seems to have plateaued at around 12,000. Hotspots have cooled, only for violence to invade places previously considered safe.Ciudad Juárez, in Chihuahua state and on the border with Texas, is the most striking example of this. For several years it has been the most dangerous place in Mexico and, by most counts, the world. A city of 1.3m, it saw more than 3,000 murders last year. Yet this year the number of mafia-related killings in Chihuahua has fallen by about a third, according to a tally by  Reforma , a newspaper, as have kidnappings and car thefts. (The government has not released murder statistics in almost a year.) So far this year, Chihuahua state accounts for only around 15% of such murders in Mexico, down from a peak of 32%.The turnaround is the fruit of better co-operation between the municipal, state and federal branches of government, according to Héctor Murguía, Juárez’s mayor. Such co-operation is not easy in Mexico, where policing is still...    
                               BY NOW Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff, must be finding the script wearily familiar. First come the corruption allegations, then the indignant denials, more evidence, equivocation and retractions—and finally another of her ministers has to walk. Since June Ms Rousseff has lost her chief of staff and the ministers of transport, agriculture, tourism and sport, variously accused of influence-peddling, bribe-taking, signing fraudulent deals with shell companies and diverting public funds into party coffers or their own pockets. Now Carlos Lupi, the labour minister, has become the latest to look as if he is heading for the exit.He is accused of presiding over a department that charged kickbacks for government contracts, of personally accepting free flights from one of those contractors and of siphoning off public money to semi-phantom non-governmental organisations (NGOs). Mr Lupi’s response was pugnacious. He did not know the man in question and had never flown with him, he said. The only way to get him out of his ministry, Mr Lupi added, would be to shoot him (“and it would have to be a big bullet, because I’m a...    
    DILMA ROUSSEFF was tortured; Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was jailed; Fernando Henrique Cardoso was forced into exile. Brazil’s president and her two most recent predecessors all suffered under the country’s 1964-85 military regime. Yet only now is the country planning a closer look at the crimes committed in those years. By November 23rd Ms Rousseff is expected to sign a law setting up a truth commission, passed by Congress in late October. Its seven members will have two years to examine murder, torture and “disappearances” perpetrated by both the government and the resistance between 1946 and 1988.A law on freedom of information will strengthen this shift towards openness. First proposed in 2003, it was given a shove in September, when Ms Rousseff agreed to lead an international “open government initiative” with Barack Obama. Brazil’s constitution is strong on the right to information. But it had no legislation to flesh out the details, making winkling out facts a matter of persistence and luck. Documents can remain secret indefinitely.In October Congress passed laws to make the constitution’s promise a reality. Soon the secrecy of sensitive documents will be limited to 25 years, renewable once. Those to do with human-rights abuses will have to be released immediately, and most material will have to be handed over within 30 days of a request, barring a valid reason for...    
                               WHEN Romeo Saganash, a member of the Cree First Nation in northern Quebec, decided to run for Parliament as a member of the New Democratic Party (NDP) in last May’s federal election, the incumbent expected to do even better than usual because of popular resistance to an aboriginal candidate. The timing of the vote also hurt Mr Saganash, since it fell during goose-hunting season, meaning many Cree were off in the bush. Yet Mr Saganash, who was already the first Cree to have become a lawyer in Quebec, won easily. That made him the first aborigine to represent a sprawling riding that covers the northern half of the province. He has since added another first: first aborigine to run for the leadership of a national Canadian political party. The NDP will vote in March.Mr Saganash exemplifies the increasing involvement in politics of aboriginal Canadians—who, counting First Nations, Inuit and mixed-ancestry Métis, make up almost 4% of the population. The groups have historically been under-represented, sometimes by choice but often because of prejudice. First Nations living on a reserve could not vote in federal...    
    DURING his successful presidential campaign this year, Ollanta Humala promised to walk the finest line in Peruvian politics: maintaining the flow of mining and gas investment while placating the social movements that oppose such industries. Nearly four months into his term, the new president is finding that keeping both parties happy at once may be impossible.Mr Humala has tried to appease his leftist base. He has set up a ministry of “development and social inclusion”, required that native groups be consulted on extractive projects and raised mining taxes. In early October his government cancelled a hearing on an environmental study for an $800m expansion of the Southern Copper Corporation’s Toquepala mine, forcing the firm to redraft its plans. And he backed the overturning of a law promoting hydroelectric plants on northern jungle rivers.                           Nonetheless, the highland department of Cajamarca is getting restless. It is the place where, in 1532, the Spanish found the last Inca emperor and killed him after he had paid a ransom of gold and silver. Today it houses Yanacocha, the world’s second-biggest gold mine....    
                               ON A quiet street in central Mexico City is a bright-yellow building claiming to be the headquarters of the “Legitimate Government of Mexico”. This curious outfit is run by Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a charismatic leftist who narrowly lost the presidential election of 2006, which he believes was fraudulent. In the weeks after the election his followers brought the capital to a standstill with a protest that inspired millions of Mexicans and infuriated millions more. Mr López Obrador, known to friends and foes alike as AMLO, is still a polarising figure. His party’s decision on November 15th to select him again as its candidate in next year’s presidential race added uncertainty to the contest and to the party’s own future.Mr López Obrador began the 2006 campaign as the favourite. This time, the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), under whose banner he will run again, languishes a distant third. The Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000, leads the pack and looks set to return under the slick candidacy of Enrique Peña Nieto, a former governor of Mexico’s most...    
                               COLOMBIAN officials have sometimes exaggerated their successes over the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). But there was no room to quibble when Juan Manuel Santos, the president, called the killing of the guerrillas’ leader on November 4th “the most resounding blow against the organisation in its entire history.” Following two air strikes on his camp in the south-western province of Cauca, Guillermo León Saenz, whose nom de guerre was Alfonso Cano, tried to hide in the surrounding jungle. But troops flooded the area and found his glasses, wallet and false teeth. A soldier then spotted him trying to escape and shot him dead. He had shaved his signature beard and moustache. It is the first time in the FARC’s 47 years that their chief has fallen.Mr Cano, once a middle-class anthropology student, spent 33 years as a guerrilla. He took over the FARC in 2008 after Pedro Antonio Marín (known as Manuel Marulanda or “Sureshot”), their founder, died of a heart attack. He was known as an intractable Marxist who advocated taking power by force. “Our struggle is to do away with the state as now it exists in...    
    STANDING beside Belarusian tractors and Chinese machine parts at Havana’s annual trade fair last month, Rodrigo Malmierca, Cuba’s foreign trade minister, said the presence of 3,000 executives from over 60 countries proved the appeal of joint commercial ventures with the Cuban government. Many in the audience saw the speech as an attempt at reassurance. Since July Cuba has arrested several foreign managers, and closed three such ventures.Most recently, on October 11th, Amado Fakhre, a British citizen and the head of Coral Capital, an investment fund, was woken at dawn and taken for questioning by state security agents. He has been held without charge ever since. His company owns Havana’s poshest hotel in partnership with the government, and hoped to win a $400m contract to build homes around a golf course. Its Havana office has been closed and declared a crime scene.Two Canadian executives, Sarkis Yacoubian and Cy Tokmakjian, have met a similar fate. Their questioning has gone on for months, again without charge. Their companies imported cars (including the president’s fleet of BMWs) and machine parts destined for nickel mining.Cuba’s official media have not published details of the cases. But rumours of the allegations—which range from overpaying local staff to offering kickbacks for contracts—highlight the difficulties for foreign investors posed by President Raúl Castro’s...    
                     A cure worse than the disease?            ISRAEL ARZATE was walking to his home in Ciudad Juárez in February 2010 when a truck pulled up. Two men forced him into the back seat. When they got out, he says, they blindfolded him, made him strip, and applied electric shocks before suffocating him with a plastic bag. He finally broke when they told him that without his co-operation, his wife would be found “dumped and raped in an empty lot”.Gangsters rich on drug profits have brought hell to Juárez, a dusty border city full of such grim tales. Yet Mr Arzate’s alleged torturers were not criminals but soldiers. As part of a crackdown on organised crime, Felipe Calderón, the president, has sent 50,000 troops to police the streets of Mexico. They have helped to kill or capture some of the country’s most wanted kingpins. But poorly trained and under pressure to get results, some have resorted to the same tactics as the criminals.Complaints against the army have soared. In the four years to 2006, the National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) received 691 such accusations. In the next four years,...    
    In our briefing on Brazil's oil (" Filling up the future ", November 5th 2011) we said Brazil has a trade deficit. We meant it has a current-account deficit. Its trade surplus, however, was shrinking until recently.       
                               FOR much of the last century inflation was as prominent a feature of Brazilian life as football. It was finally tamed, first by the Real Plan of 1994 involving a new currency and fiscal measures, and then from 1999 by requiring the Central Bank, which was granted operational independence, to set interest rates to meet an inflation target. Since 2005 that target has been 4.5%, plus or minus two percentage points. So the Central Bank surprised everyone in August when it cut its benchmark rate by half a point (to 12%) even though inflation was then at 6.9%. On October 19th, the bank did the same again. So is the government of President Dilma Rousseff, in office since January, giving priority to other goals, such as sustaining growth and preventing the overvaluation of the currency, rather than keeping inflation low? And has the Central Bank lost its independence?No, say officials, who cite two sets of reasons for the rate cuts. First, having overheated last year, the economy stalled in the third quarter, partly as a result of earlier interest-rate rises and modest fiscal tightening. The consensus forecast is...    
                               SPORTING sunglasses and military fatigues, Daniel Ortega’s portrait graced thousands of student-bedroom walls in the 1980s. His Sandinista guerrillas overthrew Anastasio Somoza, whose family had run Nicaragua as a private fief for four decades until 1979, and inspired even more support when the United States began an unsuccessful covert war to remove them. Mr Ortega lost power in the country’s first-ever free election in 1990, but was voted back into office in 2006. On November 6th he is likely to win another five-year term.The world’s romance with his Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) has soured. Whereas Mr Ortega was once a symbol of victory over tyranny, he is now a cheat. Local elections in 2008 saw vast fraud, with the FSLN wrongly awarded some 40 mayoralties. Foreign donors suspended over $100m in protest. This year the signs are ominous. Voting cards have not been delivered in some areas, and accreditation of opposition parties’ agents has been slow. The government has admitted a few EU election monitors, but no independent domestic observers.Even Mr Ortega’s presence on the ballot is disputed....    
                               AFTER years of frustration over its rotten security forces and judiciary, Guatemala’s government decided in 2006 to call for outside help. “Asking the justice system to reform itself was like tying up a dog with a string of sausages,” says Eduardo Stein, the then vice-president. The government invited the United Nations to establish a unit of foreign prosecutors to fight the infiltration of Guatemala’s institutions by corruption and organised crime. The experiment, known as the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG), completed four turbulent years last month.The commission’s main targets are clandestine networks of soldiers and policemen created during a 36-year civil war between military dictators and left-wing guerrillas. These outfits went freelance after a 1996 peace deal, selling their services to drug traffickers from Mexico and Colombia. Largely because of the drug mobs and their allies, Central America’s “northern triangle” of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador “has become probably the deadliest zone in the world” outside active theatres of war, General Douglas Fraser, head of the...    
                               INFLATION and capital flight have steadily weakened Argentina’s peso since Cristina Fernández became president in 2007. Back then one peso bought $0.32; today it buys just $0.24, despite recent support from the central bank (see chart). Long accustomed to currency crises, Argentines price homes and cars in dollars, and race into greenbacks at the first sign of economic trouble. Fresh from re-election, Ms Fernández is now pre-emptively stopping them from trying.On October 31st the government began requiring bureaux de change and banks, who could previously conduct transactions with little oversight, to submit clients’ tax-identification numbers online to the tax agency for approval. It sent 4,400 inspectors to money-changers nationwide to enforce the rule.Officially, the restriction targets money-laundering. “People above board should remain calm,” said Amado Boudou, the economy minister. “Those in the black economy should be very nervous.”But in practice it is ensnaring everyone. Some operators closed their doors, saying they had to process the new rules. Those that did open drew queues up to two hours long...    
    DESPITE mounting evidence of unsavoury links between the Mafia, construction companies and politicians in Quebec, for more than two years Jean Charest, the Liberal premier of the province, resisted calls for a judicial inquiry. Instead, he ordered a police probe and created a permanent anti-corruption unit. But after the leaking in September of an explosive report from this unit detailing cost overruns totalling hundreds of millions of dollars, kickbacks and illegal donations to political parties, Mr Charest relented.On October 19th he said that he had asked France Charbonneau, a superior-court judge, to probe financial ties between construction firms and political parties dating back 15 years. Judge Charbonneau is a tough former prosecutor. She will report to the premier; if she needs to, she can subpoena witnesses, a power Mr Charest initially denied her.Media claims of corruption have coincided with the crumbling of Quebec’s roads. The collapse of a highway flyover in 2006 crushed five people. A 15-metre-long slab of concrete fell from the roof of a road tunnel in July 2011; miraculously, no commuters were hurt. Engineering reports suggest a bridge carrying 60m cars a year between the island of Montreal and suburbs on the south shore is in danger of collapsing. There may be other factors: much building was done hastily to prepare Montreal for the 1976 Olympic games, and...    
                               IT WAS back in May, in the southern-hemisphere autumn, when Chile’s students and many schoolchildren began taking to the streets to demand wholesale reform of the education system. Now spring has come, but there is no sign of settling what has turned into the most serious political conflict for two decades in Latin America’s most successful country. Talks between the students and the government began in August, but broke down on October 5th. Chile is paying an increasingly high price for the deadlock.Pupils have occupied hundreds of schools since May, locking out their teachers and depriving tens of thousands of children of their education. Many university students have not been to classes for months. Most weeks they stage marches, often unauthorised, in Santiago, the capital. With depressing predictability these end in clashes between a minority of violent youths and the police. Many residents now avoid the city centre on protest days to escape the bricks, bottles, water cannon and tear gas. Some 1,800 protesters have been arrested since May and over 500 police injured. The damage runs into millions of dollars....    
    ON OCTOBER 29th Brazilians learnt that Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, their former president, had been diagnosed with cancer. The tumour on his larynx was probably caused by smoking: though high blood pressure prompted the 66-year-old to quit last year, he started as a teenager and liked  cigarillos  (unfiltered small cigars). Two days later he started chemotherapy at the Sírio-Libanês Hospital in São Paulo, where his successor, Dilma Rousseff, was treated for lymphoma in 2009. He expects to undergo radiotherapy as well, and has cancelled all travel plans for three months.Lula’s openness about his illness stood in marked contrast to the secrecy regarding the health of Venezuela’s president, Hugo Chávez. Brazilians learnt of Lula’s cancer the same day that he did; Venezuelans only found out weeks after Mr Chávez was treated for a “pelvic abscess” in Cuba that a cancerous tumour had been removed. Details of his condition are still unknown. Lula told his doctors to release bulletins on his progress; Mr Chávez’s medical team has still not said a word.The Brazilian press responded to Lula’s frankness in kind. Will Lula have to stay off the booze, journalists asked? (Definitely). Will he lose his hair? (Perhaps, and his beard.) His voice? (For a while, probably, though chemotherapy and radiotherapy were chosen over surgery partly to protect his growly delivery...    
                               LATIN Americans are demanding more of their democracies, their institutions and governments; they worry about crime almost as much as about economic problems; and fewer of them think that their country is progressing. Those are some of the findings of the latest Latinobarómetro poll, taken in 18 countries and published exclusively by  The Economist . Because the poll has been taken regularly since 1995, it does a good job showing how attitudes in the region are changing.     
    AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL has called the approval of South Africa’s so-called secrecy bill on November 22nd a “dark day for freedom of expression”. Archbishop Desmond Tutu, an anti-apartheid hero, says the bill will “outlaw whistle-blowing and investigative journalism”. The Confederation of South African Trade Unions fears it will be used to cover up government corruption and other wrongdoing. Nadine Gordimer, a South African Nobel prize-winner for literature, says it will take the country back to the apartheid era.  Business Day , the country’s most respected daily, dubs it an “abomination”.All this may be a bit over the top. When the Orwellian-sounding Protection of Information Bill was first introduced in March 2010, it did indeed sound dire. Any “organ of state”—there are over 1,000 of them—was to be allowed to classify documents, including commercial information, if it were deemed to be in an undefined “national interest”. Anyone unlawfully disclosing classified information could face up to 25 years in jail even if disclosure were shown to be in the public interest. But since then the bill has been subjected to over 100 amendments. Even its critics admit that it has been vastly improved.In its new form, only the police, intelligence and security services would be allowed to classify information, and then only for reasons of national security....    
                               THE windows of the crumbling, colonial-era house that serves as head office for the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS), Congo’s main opposition party, are mostly broken from stones and petrol bombs thrown by supporters of President Joseph Kabila in a series of tit-for-tat attacks in September. Inside, rooms are dark and empty except for a few broken chairs and makeshift desks. Political power seems a long way off.On November 28th Congo will hold its second democratic election since the end in 2002 of a bloody war that left several million dead. The UDPS will field the leading opposition candidate for the presidency, Etienne Tshisekedi. He is trying to convince voters that at 78 he has enough life in him to rule this most unruly of African countries. In the 1980s and 1990s, he was tortured and imprisoned for years as head of the opposition against Mobutu Sese Seko, the kleptocrat who ran Congo from 1965 to 1997.Life and politics have improved since then, but not nearly as much as it was hoped. Mr Tshisekedi spent the first two weeks of the official 30-day election campaign in South Africa...    
                               IF ALL goes to plan, Palestine should soon reunite—at least in theory—its two feuding enclaves: the Gaza Strip, run by the Palestinian Islamist movement, Hamas, and the West Bank, the power-base of the Palestinians’ secular national movement, Fatah. On November 24th their two leaders, President Mahmoud Abbas and Khaled Meshal, were to meet in Cairo to discuss implementing an agreement they signed in principle in May to form an interim government, to set a date for elections, and to bring Hamas into the fold of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, a policy-making body that is supposed to be an umbrella for all the Palestinian groups.The plan is by no means sure to come to fruition. After a week of arm-twisting by Barack Obama’s envoys and by King Abdullah of Jordan, who flew his helicopter to Mr Abbas’s seat in the West Bank city of Ramallah for the first time in over a decade, the gaps are widening again. Mr Abbas insists on keeping the West’s favourite Palestinian, Salam Fayyad, as prime minister, to ensure that Western aid continues to flow; Hamas wants him out. The Fatah faction shrinks from...    
                     Who propels whom?            WHEN Saif al-Islam, the favoured son of Muammar Qaddafi, was captured by a militia from the mountain town of Zintan on November 19th, thousands danced in the streets of Libya’s capital, Tripoli. Abdullah al-Senussi, the hated intelligence chief and the last of the top Qaddafi aides still at large, was detained days later.A pro-Qaddafi insurgency, once feared, now looks a lot less likely. But the new authorities are still struggling to build a coherent government. Many of the militias that helped to fight Colonel Qaddafi feel entitled to a share of power. They continue to hold on to territory and weapons captured in the summer without bowing to a central authority.Earlier this month two militias fought each other in a territorial dispute near the town of Zawiya, west of Tripoli. National leaders tried to mediate. Qaddafi-era police, though back on the streets, were too weak to intervene. The fighting died down only after the arrival of special forces led by the man who once headed them under Colonel Qaddafi.Power remains fluid in post-revolutionary Libya....    
                     Bassiouni dogs the king            IT WAS both a humiliation and a triumph. Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa listened quietly as a litany of human-rights abuses committed by his security forces was read out. It was a devastating and embarrassing indictment of his security forces’ behaviour. But it was also a vindication of his claim that it would be an independent and genuine attempt to get at the truth, thereby undermining his opponents’ insistence that it would be a worthless document.Five months after the king appointed a panel of human-rights experts to examine events in Bahrain earlier this year, when anti-government protests by the majority Shias across the Sunni-ruled kingdom prompted a brutal crackdown, the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry has laid bare the scale of abuse. Cherif Bassiouni, a former war-crimes lawyer for the UN who chaired the five-person panel, left little to the imagination as he described the systematic torture of prisoners, nearly all of them Shias, along with a “culture of impunity” in Bahrain’s security forces.It was not the whitewash the...    
                     Ghannouchi strides ahead            WHILE Egypt is rent anew with protests, Tunisia’s democratic transition is moving smoothly ahead. The 217 men and women elected to a constituent assembly convened in a dignified inaugural session on November 22nd as tensions perceptibly eased now that the unelected transitional government, set up mainly by behind-the-scenes fixers, is bowing out.Most prominent among the guests was Rachid Ghannouchi, the 70-year-old leader of the Islamist party, Nahda, who spent 20-plus years in exile in London. Nahda emerged as the clear victor in last month’s election, with 41% of the assembly’s seats. It will now have most influence in setting the agenda. A general election is expected under a new constitution in late 2012 or early 2013.Tunisia’s new prime minister will be Hamadi Jebali, a former political prisoner who did the rounds of Washington think-tanks in the summer, explaining Nahda’s policies and reassuring Americans that it would not be frighteningly Islamist. Nahda has signalled it would not demand the lion’s share of cabinet seats. For the time being it...    
                               QUICK-WITTED street vendors in Cairo’s Tahrir Square have enjoyed a steady, if dwindling trade in revolutionary flags and stickers since mass protests toppled the regime of Hosni Mubarak in February. In recent days souvenir tat has given way to a hotter-selling item. With riot-police spewing choking clouds of tear-gas round the clock, and Tahrir’s resilient crowds of protesters again swelling into hundreds of thousands, the market for cheap, Chinese-made gas masks has proved rewardingly brisk.Egypt’s rulers, on the other hand, seem sorely lacking in such street wisdom. When the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF), a body of 24 generals, assumed power in the wake of Mr Mubarak’s fall, Egyptians by and large expressed joy and relief. The council promised sweeping reforms, a swift return to stability and a prompt transition to elected civilian rule.Instead, the country has lurched from crisis to crisis. In the absence of either a clear political horizon or bold, pragmatic policies, the economy has stumbled into a morass, even as the generals stretched their timetable for democracy from months to years, and...    
                               BUFFETED by financial squalls and fearful of a Libyan-like upheaval, Sudan’s president, Omar al-Bashir, is digging in hard. He is hammering groups opposed to his National Congress Party, while using his army and rebel proxies to bait South Sudan, his diminished country’s newly independent neighbour. Fighting in the south’s Unity state, close to the border, has left scores dead. A lot more have died in South Kordofan, a state within his rump Sudan, just north of the new border, where ethnic Nuba are pressing for control of a mountain range.Mr Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court in The Hague for crimes against humanity in Darfur, his country’s ravaged western province. Some of his genocidal generals are still in operation. One of them probably gave the order to bomb a refugee camp in South Sudan on November 10th. According to eyewitnesses, bombs were pushed out of the back of an Antonov transport plane—a signature method of Sudanese air raids in the past.America has urged South Sudan to have “the wisdom and restraint not to take the bait”. President Salva Kiir accused the north of stoking war...    
                               IF JACOB ZUMA, South Africa’s president, thinks he has removed an irritating thorn in his flesh by getting Julius Malema suspended for five years from the ruling African National Congress (ANC) and thrown out as leader of its powerful youth wing, he should think again. Once one of Mr Zuma’s most ardent supporters, but now counted among his most implacable opponents, Mr Malema has made it clear that he has no intention of quietly fading into the background—particularly not in the run-up to the ANC’s five-yearly conference in December next year when all the party’s office-bearers face re-election.Many ANC people would like to see Mr Zuma, who will turn 70 in April, removed as the party’s president at that conference, just as his predecessor, Thabo Mbeki, was ousted by Mr Zuma at the ANC’s last “elective” conference in Polokwane in 2007. Nine months later, party leaders ditched him as the country’s president with only a few months of his mandate left, replacing him with an interim president, Kgalema Motlanthe, until parliamentary elections in April 2009 swept Mr Zuma to power. That created a precedent which...    
                     A court that may be redesigned            WHEREAS Israel’s voters have been moving to the nationalist and religious right, most of its top judges have clung to a more liberal and secular view of the world. On November 10th Salim Joubran, one of three Supreme Court judges deciding the fate of the country’s former president, Moshe Katzav, upheld his conviction for rape. Almost no Israeli batted an eyelid, even though the judge who dispatched the eighth head of the Jewish state off to jail was an Arab, from a community that now makes up one in five of Israeli citizens.Liberal Israelis, however, complain that legislators in Binyamin Netanyahu’s ruling national-religious coalition are seeking to destroy this pluralistic ethos in the courts, as well as in other institutions of state, including the armed forces and civil service. In particular, worried liberals cite a series of bills apparently designed to promote right-wingers to the Supreme Court.National-religious politicians have long been riled by the gap in attitudes between Israel’s top judges and the electorate. The Supreme Court is...    
                               A RUN-OFF presidential election on November 8th turned sour well before results were announced. Liberia’s main opposition called for a boycott after losing the first round amid dubious allegations of fraud. The day before the second poll police opened fire on protesters at an opposition rally, leaving at least two dead. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the incumbent, won a handsome 91% of the vote but turnout was a derisory 39%.Lacking solid legitimacy, she may now face a rocky second term unless she manages to mend fences with her opponents. Many of their claims of fraud are outlandish, yet some of their concerns are valid. The president’s party restricted their access to public spaces and dismissed the head of Liberia’s state broadcaster who had sought balanced coverage of the election.Ms Johnson Sirleaf, co-winner of this year’s Nobel peace prize, did allow a free and fair vote. But she failed to stop her underlings from taking dodgy steps beforehand to ensure victory. This bodes ill for Liberia. The poll has reinforced the country’s perennial divide between a small elite of Americo-Liberians, descendants of freed American slaves who...    
                               THE city of Homs, the third-biggest in Syria, is close to civil war. Sitting astride a sectarian fault-line between the city’s mainly Sunni centre and an area to the north-west dominated by members of the Alawite faith, a minority Muslim sect whose followers form the core of Bashar Assad’s regime, it is now the hub of the conflict. In the past fortnight, more than 100 people in the city are reported to have been killed. The security forces are struggling to regain control.Between Homs and Idlib in the north-west, Mr Assad’s men, despite an increasing proliferation of checkpoints, are facing tougher opposition than ever before. After months of mainly peaceful protests, Hama, Syria’s fourth city, to the north of Homs, is becoming more violent too. Across the country, the scale of bloodshed has increased, as a growing number of defectors from the army, along with civilians who have been acquiring weapons in greater numbers, have joined the fray. On November 16th army defectors attacked an intelligence base in a Damascus suburb. The nationwide death rate in the past fortnight may, say human-rights monitors, have...    
                               SOON after the liberation of Tripoli, the Libyan capital, this correspondent met a woman sporting a  niqab ,   or face veil, along with a floor-length black dress and black gloves. Her eyes, all that could be seen, gleamed as she revelled in a new-found freedom. For 40 years under what she disdainfully termed the “liberalism” of Colonel Muammar Qaddafi, the  niqab  had been forbidden. “But now we can wear what we like!”Aliaa el-Mahdi, a 20-year-old university student in Cairo, has found a very different way to celebrate the Arab spring. She recently posted an alluring photograph on Facebook, Twitter and her personal blog. It showed herself standing unclothed, bar thigh-length stockings and a pair of bright-red shoes.The public airing of a nude self-portrait, an act of almost unheard-of daring in a conservative Arab country, stirred instant controversy, as well as more than a million page views. Ms el-Mahdi, who describes herself as an atheist, says she meant to echo “screams against a society of violence, racism, sexism, sexual harassment and...    
    THE Libyan rebels who triumphed in their six-month uprising against Colonel Muammar Qaddafi could not have prevailed without arms, air-cover, funding and diplomatic support from NATO and Arab allies. Even so, victory belonged to them. No foreign ground troops were deployed. Brave Libyans protected Benghazi, defended Misrata and captured Tripoli. The country’s new rulers emerged from the war with hard-earned legitimacy, giving them a decent chance of setting up a unified national government.Last month they thanked their foreign allies and bid them goodbye. Most allies in turn stressed that the Libyans were in charge. Time to go home, they said: this was not Iraq in 2003. However, since the fighting ceased some allies have become more involved in Libyan affairs, not less, according to Western diplomats.Libya is a small, rich and homogenous country. None of its political factions and fledgling parties are dominant. To gain influence (and wealth) they know they must co-operate. A successful post-war political system will be based on competition. But it can only work if no one group gains dominance. Some could potentially make a bid for hegemony, but only if they have access to outside resources. Parts of the new establishment are worried when they see foreign powers giving selective backing to their opponents—often those prepared to do their bidding. This not only undermines...    
                     Thank goodness it’s not an electric blanket            PRESIDENT GOODLUCK JONATHAN recently invited a group of businessmen to a cattle ranch for a retreat to discuss how to generate faster economic growth. At one point he handed the assembled notables unmarked brown envelopes. Raised eyebrows rippled around the room. The president often castigates corruption. Yet he motioned for the tycoons to open the envelopes. Inside they found not cash but blank pieces of paper, on which he asked them each to write the names of three rent-seeking officials hurting their businesses, promising to investigate.It is the sort of story Nigerians like to hear about their president, following his re-election in April. He spent several months in purdah, putting together a cabinet. He lured Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the World Bank’s managing-director, back home from Washington to act as a super-minister for finance and the economy. Olusegun Aganga, her predecessor at the ministry who was once a Goldman Sachs banker, swallowed his pride and stayed on as trade and investment minister.The central bank’s outspoken governor,...    
                               MUAMMAR QADDAFI was adept at negotiating with Tuareg nomads in the Sahara and created alliances with many of their clans. Hundreds of Tuareg fighters stood by him as his regime fought a losing battle for survival. Now they are going back to the desert regions of Chad, Mali and Niger, possibly bringing a host of problems with them.Some Tuareg acquired high-tech weapons during Libya’s civil war, and may have taken them home. At least 13 died in a shoot-out with government forces in Niger on November 9th. Gold dished out by fleeing Qaddafi officials could pay for insurgencies. Fighters might also link up with al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, a regional terror group. This comes at a time of growing radicalism in Mali and Niger, with illiterate and disillusioned citizens finding solace in mosques.Yet talk of Tuareg uprisings is often overstated. For all their swagger and Star Wars-style dress, the Tuareg are not numerous. Mali has 75,000 in a population of 15m. Some rebel groups may contain no more than a few dozen fighters. The main threat from the Libyan revolution to its southern neighbours is the economic...    
                               AFRICA’S recent history is punctuated with nasty civil wars. Angola, Congo, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Sudan and others. Most are now over, leaving behind millions of survivors, many short of one or more limbs. The nimblest in several nations have banded together in football teams and will play each other at a continent-wide tournament in Ghana from November 18th.The idea is to give hope to amputees, says an organiser, who “might think life has come to an end”. Amputee football, which was played elsewhere in the world before its African debut in 2003, has its own rules. The tournament in Ghana is seven-a-side; most players are single-leg amputees (although those with one incapacitated leg are also permitted); goalkeepers have one hand.Samuel Tengbeh, a 28-year-old member of the Liberian team, lost his leg in 1999 during the country’s civil war and long felt demoralised. “I truly believe we are going to do our best now,” he said. African countries with mostly peaceful histories man their teams with accident victims. Francis Antwi-Darkwah, a Ghanaian, lost his right leg in a car crash. He believes amputee football...    
    THE shoes of Hussein Tantawi, the 76-year-old field-marshal who has led Egypt since February’s revolution, were stolen recently from the door of a mosque (Muslims pray barefoot). Or so says a rumour, speedily plundered for jokes and flashed around by text message, Twitter and Facebook. One purported ransom note read: “Give us back our government and we’ll give back the shoes.”Ever humourless, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF), the ruling body headed by the field-marshal, issued a statement denying that any high-ranking footwear had gone missing. But the gibes have persisted, perhaps because, as is often true in a country famed for sharp wit, the joking masks serious messages.One is growing public irritation at remaining under the thumb of an army that repeatedly promised to surrender power to an elected civilian government but that keeps finding excuses to linger, while trying civilians in military courts—more than 12,000 so far. Egyptians look enviously towards Tunisia, which also rose up last winter but has almost completed a smooth transition to democracy.Three weeks before elections that might at an earlier stage have been cheered as a stride in the right direction, many Egyptians are in a grim mood. The economy is sinking into an ever-deeper mess. Military rulers appear incompetent, out of touch and violently reactionary, while civilian politicians bicker...    
                               WESTERN governments have long been convinced that Iran is pursuing military objectives with its secretive nuclear programme. But until this week the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), jealous of its credibility as a non-political, science-led body, said it had no unambiguous proof of Iran’s intention to build a bomb. A report it published on November 8th still falls just short of that proof, but nonetheless marks a watershed.The IAEA’s report says that it “has serious concerns regarding possible military dimensions to Iran’s nuclear programme. After assessing carefully and critically the extensive information available to it, the agency finds the information to be, overall, credible… that Iran has carried out activities relevant to the development of a nuclear explosive device.”A 12-page annexe offers a convincing narrative of Iran’s progress towards becoming a nuclear-weapons power. It says that Iran created computer models of nuclear explosions in 2008 and 2009 and conducted experiments on nuclear triggers. It says that the simulations focused on how shock waves from conventional explosives could...    
    SHORTLY after the Palestinian Islamists of Hamas conquered the Gaza Strip in June 2007 and clobbered its rivals in Fatah, one of its leaders, Mahmoud Zahar, sat in the shade of his orchard and spoke of improving his group’s relations with Israel. He recalled earlier face-to-face meetings with senior Israeli officials and mused that if the then opposition leader Binyamin Netanyahu came to power, Israel and Hamas might negotiate a truce.It is too soon to know whether the release of Sergeant Gilad Shalit on October 18th after five years in Hamas’s hands, in exchange for a thousand-plus Palestinian prisoners, marks what Hamas’s prime minister in Gaza, Ismail Haniyeh, calls “a turning point” in its relations with Israel.But Hamas is already reaping a reward, at least in the short run. After years of isolation and banishment from many Arab countries, its leaders are again being courted by governments in the region. Access into Gaza and trade across a border that was once hermetically sealed by Israel are growing. Israeli journalists jostle for hitherto rare interviews with Mr Zahar.Just as telling, Hamas leaders are basking in a domestic approval-rate that goes well beyond the group’s own rank and file. Most of the 477 Palestinians freed in the first tranche are Hamas people but the bulk of the 550 prisoners set for the second tranche are from Fatah, led by President Mahmoud...    
                     Parliament first, president next?            EVEN after a year of often startling change, the pace of events in Myanmar can still surprise. On November 18th, only a year after its leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, was released from a long stint of house arrest, the National League for Democracy (NLD) said that it would formally re-enter politics and compete in upcoming parliamentary by-elections. The opposition party had boycotted last year’s national elections, on the grounds that they were rigged in favour of the army junta and its proxies. The NLD was then disqualified as a political party.The NLD now says it is satisfied by various changes to the electoral laws—and the government appears satisfied to see the party unbanned. Ms Suu Kyi says that she herself will contest one of the seats up for grabs. She is wildly popular, and her participation would invest the parliament with much-needed legitimacy, though it will remain heavily dominated by parliamentarians chosen by the army.Thein Sein, president since March and the man chiefly responsible for initiating Myanmar’s thaw, got his reward at...    
                               FOR connoisseurs of South Asian Baroque, few places are more heavenly than Sher Pur, a Kabul neighbourhood where cavernous houses boast garish colours, outsize chandeliers, sparkly columns and giant concrete eagles on the rooftops.These startling dwellings were quickly let a decade ago to hordes of foreign contractors working on multimillion-dollar development projects. But now the district is emptying, as the splurge of aid recedes. Until recently USAID rented one 18-room giant for $24,000 a month. It is now on the market for $15,000 a month, and the agent will take much less.Since 2001 vast sums of Western money have been spent on Afghanistan—$440 billion by America alone. Foreign money has dominated the economy, powering breakneck consumption. Exports account for a paltry 2.5% of Afghanistan’s GDP.Soon NATO will start cutting its 130,000 troops in the country, to perhaps as few as 20,000 by 2015. Many fear an economic depression when foreign spending dries up. But a new forecast by the World Bank suggests that, if it is lucky, Afghanistan can avoid disaster, even if that means only treading water for...    
                     Sherry Rehman won’t be writing memos            OFTEN during Pakistan’s turbulent history has the army’s 111th Brigade swept out of its headquarters in Rawalpindi, scooted to Islamabad 20 minutes away, and effortlessly taken over the government. These days, under General Ashfaq Kayani, the soldiers know it is wiser to rule from behind the scenes, with a weak civilian government taking the blame for the country’s problems. On November 22nd the army heaped humiliation on the government, pressing it to jettison Pakistan’s ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, a smooth operator, over allegations that he crafted an offer to rein in the Pakistani army and its spy agency in return for American help in averting a feared coup.The offer to the American administration was made in an unsigned memo, which Mr Haqqani denies writing. It was sent to America’s military high command in May, during a time when relations were febrile following the killing in Pakistan by American special forces of Osama bin Laden. The memo’s existence was revealed only in October, by the controversial American...    
                     Basyir: nine years and falling            THE world’s most populous Muslim-majority nation, Indonesia, has long had a problem in some parts of the archipelago with religious extremism, intolerance and the sort of terrorism that can flow from both. The country has had a good deal of success in combating Islamist terrorism since the bombings on the island of Bali in 2002, which killed 202 people. But continuing suicide-bomb attacks and the discovery of terrorist training-camps suggest that Indonesia remains in danger. Judging by recent events, however, the country has yet to develop a clear strategy to deal with the threat. Too often, different bits of the state give out different, even contradictory, signals. The result is a dangerous muddle.Thus on October 12th lawmakers at last passed a new security bill, the Law on State Intelligence. This was the culmination of years of debate, in many ways a tribute to Indonesia’s vibrant new democracy. Legislators wanted to produce a bill that sharpened the effectiveness of the country’s multitude of intelligence and anti-terrorist agencies without...    
                               UNLIKE attention-seeking politicians elsewhere, senior Communist cadres in China like to keep their ambitions hidden. If anything, they signal grey conservatism, stressing how little they wish to change things. But as the country awaits a change of its leadership late next year, some high officials are up for a bit of self-promotion. In Guangdong province in the south the Communist Party chief, Wang Yang, is dropping hints that his more liberal style of governing might offer a better way for running the country.Guangdong has long been the most vibrant and economically liberal province in China. Now the idea that economic liberalism might be matched by greater political openness has come to be called the “Guangdong model”. A prominent supporter is Xiao Bin of Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou, the provincial capital. On the blackboard, he draws a picture of an egg. He makes chalk marks on the white to show how changes can be made in the way the party rules, while leaving the yolk—for which read a Communist Party monopoly on power—unmarked.Mr Wang, who is 56, has been a member of the ruling Politburo since 2007....    
                               BEHIND a huge bulletproof screen sit judges, lawyers and three wizened former leaders of the Khmer Rouge. In their 80s, the defendants may be the last people to be prosecuted over the deaths of at least 1.7m people in 1975-79, when the Khmer Rouge exercised monstrous power in Cambodia. Gawped at daily by busloads of onlookers—monks, black-clad teenagers, turbaned villagers, earnest foreigners—the men can expect to pass much of the rest of their lives in the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia, a hybrid local and United Nations creation that sits just outside the capital, Phnom Penh.The tribunal has an impossible job. The crimes in its ambit are too many and various for more than symbolic justice to be seen to be done. Set up in 2003 and now costing $40m a year, it has so far managed a single conviction, of Kaing Guek Eav, alias Duch, who ran the infamous Tuol Sleng prison, where 14,000 entered and only a dozen came out. Though a monster, he was a relatively low-ranking one, with a degree of remorse.On November 21st prosecutors opened the case against the three defendants in “case 002” (numbered as if...    
                               BORN in Hawaii, raised for some of his childhood in Indonesia, Barack Obama has since his election wanted to be known as America’s first “Pacific President”. Until recently, he has not done much to earn the title. That, Mr Obama declares, is now changing.Allies in Asia have complained about only intermittent American attention to their region. But in a speech to Australia’s parliament on November 17th Mr Obama announced that America is back. “Let there be no doubt: in the Asia-Pacific in the 21st century, the United States of America is all in.” It was, he said, a “deliberate and strategic decision”: America was “here to stay”.Senior administration officials back up the president. They talk of a new “pivot” in foreign policy towards Asia. They say that much of Mr Obama’s first term has been spent dealing with “inherited” issues, many of them linked to George Bush’s war on terror. But America is now (almost) out of Iraq, and there is a deadline to extricate itself from Afghanistan (see  article ). So Asia is coming more into focus. Of...    
                               IF YOU think euro-zone governments are a mess, then Pacific states make them look like models of stability. On November 11th the Solomon Islands’ prime minister, Danny Philip, resigned to avoid a no-confidence motion, after allegations of misappropriation of aid from Taiwan. The day before, the president of Nauru, Marcus Stephen (a Commonwealth gold-medal-winning weightlifter) stood down after allegations that he took kickbacks on earnings from phosphate exports. His replacement, Freddie Pitcher, lasted six days before he too was ousted in a no-confidence vote. Nauru is on its third president in a week.In Papua New Guinea (PNG), the new government survives, but only just. Its leader, Peter O’Neill, became prime minister in August, after the speaker ruled that the post was vacant. The previous incumbent, Sir Michael Somare, was then convalescing in Singapore after complications from heart surgery. He returned in September, unsuccessfully reclaimed the top job and briefly appeared on the floor of parliament in a wheelchair to avoid losing his seat. The Supreme Court is due to pronounce on the...    
                     Rather here than Parliament            LINGER by the wheat fields and scruffy villages of Amethi, Rahul Gandhi’s constituency, and praise rings out for Congress’s heir apparent. “I never thought he’d be so damn handsome”, trills one student, recalling the 41-year-old’s visit to her campus. The head of Amethi’s swanky charitable hospital was equally smitten when he inspected its new blood bank. Not the usual poker-stiff Indian politician, Mr Gandhi strides past security cordons to grab voters’ hands, tries out Awadhi, the local dialect, and holds late-night chats in low-caste homes. Draped in a red and gold sari, Shiv Kumari, a widow in Semra village, happily recalls three hours he spent in her tumbledown cottage. They nibbled vegetables and  puri , though she admits “I don’t know why he came”.Breaking bread with  dalits  once considered untouchable is a trademark of Mr Gandhi’s campaigns. But the Amethi MP seems happier on rural walkabouts, chatting to roadside tea-wallahs and farm workers, than dabbling in national politics, mixing with better educated...    
    TAIWAN’S president, Ma Ying-jeou of the Kuomintang (KMT), who is running for re-election on January 14th, was once thought to have a clear advantage. Elected in a landslide in 2008, Mr Ma brought tensions with China to their lowest state in six decades, forged business agreements across the Taiwan Strait, and help keep an export-dependent island from being swept up in the global financial crisis. In contrast to his wealth of experience (Mr Ma has also been mayor of Taipei, the capital), his chief opponent, Tsai Ing-wen of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), is a rather owlish academic who has never before been elected to public office.Now things are not looking nearly as certain. In recent weeks the president’s popularity has dropped. A prediction market run by National Chengchi University, accurate in the past, says the probability of his winning the election dived from over 59% on October 16th to under 42% on November 14th; Ms Tsai stands at 49%. Opinion polls in the island’s media, which usually leans towards the KMT, also show slumping popularity, though Mr Ma still leads by a few percentage points. A victory for Ms Tsai, a moderate in her party, might yet raise tensions with China, which has growled that Taiwanese moves towards independence will be met with force.What has changed for Mr Ma is the arrival of a second China-friendly presidential...    
    CHINA’S policymakers are a wary and watchful bunch. Their party’s sole claim to legitimacy is economic stability, and they guard it jealously. In the euro area’s crisis, there is plenty for them to guard against: the European Union accounts for a fifth of China’s exports.This external problem comes on top of twin dangers at home. China’s efforts to tighten credit have starved the country’s small enterprises of badly needed finance, forcing them into the clutches of black-market lenders who charge usurious rates of interest. The housing market is also slowing. Sales fell by almost 12% in October, compared with a year earlier.In response, China’s policymakers are easing their macroeconomic grip one finger at a time. In October Wen Jiabao, the prime minister, visited the eastern city of Wenzhou, where entrepreneurs have suffered gravely from the credit crunch. Taxmen and regulators should go easy, he said, on banks that lend to small companies. Mr Wen later visited a special economic zone in Tianjin and said banks and local governments should give high-tech firms their full support. In October bank lending quickened, filling some of the gap left by shadow lenders.But this easing remains subtle. Mr Wen and other officials have begun to talk of “fine-tuning”, suggesting existing controls may be a semitone too sharp, but no more. Interest rates have not been cut; nor have the...    
    MIST-DRAPED mountains and the serene ambience of the Thai city of Chiang Saen beguile visitors to the Mekong river in an area dubbed the Golden Triangle. This is where the borders of three countries, Myanmar, Laos and Thailand, converge.But the serenity was shattered on October 5th by the sight of corpses floating downriver. Thirteen Chinese from two commercial vessels had been shot dead near Chiang Saen port and their bodies tossed overboard. Thailand’s police found over 920,000 amphetamine tablets on board the boats, plying between China’s Yunnan province and the Thai port. An angry Chinese government suspended its shipping on the Mekong until better security could be put in place. The ministers of China’s three Mekong neighbours were summoned to Beijing for urgent talks.At first the Thai army unit with responsibility for anti-narcotics and border security blamed the killings on an armed group of drug-trafficking bandits led by the notorious Naw Kham. But then a huge investigation led by the head of the Thai police, General Priewpan Damapong, sprang a surprise. It uncovered evidence that the shots were fired not from the guns of drug gangs or river pirates, but from the weapons of Thai soldiers. Nine Thai officers from the anti-narcotics unit have since been charged with murder. Embarrassed, Thai authorities insist this is a rogue group, on the payroll of a drug warlord....    
                               LIKE a shrine to the futility of foreign intervention, the Nesaji cotton-and-wool factory is empty and idle but surprisingly well-kept. Bird droppings dapple the floor of the vast facility, in Kandahar in southern Afghanistan, heartland of the extremist Taliban regime that was toppled in 2001. But the textile machinery from the former East Germany looks as if it might even work. From one loom, a serviceable roll of blue cloth still hangs.It is said that Nesaji used to employ 3,000 people. But since the mid-1970s, when it was financed by Iran and built by the Soviet Union, it has operated for fewer than 60 days. Endless warfare has precluded production. That the factory survived in such good nick is thanks to a local strongman, a former mujahideen fighter against the Soviet Union, who gave it his protection.Now the local government and the American-led “Provincial Reconstruction Team” (PRT) that nurtures it would like to put Nesaji back to work. As foreign forces prepare to leave Afghanistan over the next three years, the PRTs across the country hope to help lay the foundations for a successful economy. Cotton-...    
                               THE Americans are back. As if to reassure a region that sometimes feels neglected, Hillary Clinton proclaims in an essay in the current issue of  Foreign Policy  that: “The future of politics will be decided in Asia, not Afghanistan or Iraq, and the United States will be right at the centre of the action.” If all goes to plan, America will take big steps towards this goal at an upcoming summit hosted by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) on the Indonesian island of Bali on November 17th-19th.The ten-member regional grouping will first be holding its own heads-of-state summit on Bali. But their annual shindig will be overshadowed by President Barack Obama’s planned attendance immediately afterwards at the East Asia Summit (EAS), a body to which the United States will formally accede. The EAS was founded six years ago as a diplomatic extension of ASEAN, and includes other countries, such as Australia, China and India, that have interests in the Asia-Pacific. America’s accession will be momentous for everyone, argues Robin Bush, the optimistic head of the Asia Foundation in Jakarta, because...    
    THE American president is bringing a new—or at least rewarmed—cause to the Asia-Pacific region: free trade. Barack Obama recently signed a ground-breaking free-trade agreement (FTA) with South Korea, after years of Washington foot-dragging. He signed FTAs with Colombia and Panama on the same day. On November 12th-13th the president hosts an Asia-Pacific trade jamboree in Honolulu which, he seems to hope, will give momentum to the idea of a remarkably ambitious free-trade zone at just the time when global trade talks are going nowhere.Mr Obama’s plans hang on negotiations for a little-known but rather liberal trade grouping, called the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). These will take place on the sidelines of the annual summit of APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation), a gathering long famed for its waffling. Currently, TPP members number only four small economies: Brunei, Chile, New Zealand and Singapore. But over the past year America, Australia, Malaysia, Peru and Vietnam have made progress in talks to join the club.Were America a member, its trade with its eight fellow TPP members would amount to little more than 5% of all its foreign trade. But some quietly hope that the TPP will serve as a “docking station” for an APEC-wide free-trade area. That would further move the global centre of economic gravity from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific.An announcement was...    
                     Hotheads, or nice local lads?            FOR years a dark hope has lurked in the minds of some senior NATO soldiers in Afghanistan: that the Taliban-led insurgency might turn on the country’s rural population, killing, maiming and intimidating civilians instead of wooing them in more subtle ways. The hope, voiced always in a whisper, is that a nastier Taliban would then be comprehensively rejected by ordinary Afghans.Such unmentionable thoughts are deeply at odds with the stated NATO policy of trying to protect the population as much as possible from the depredations of Taliban insurgents. Nonetheless, the view is particularly prevalent among American military alumni of Anbar, the province in Iraq that descended into hell when (foreign) al-Qaeda insurgents overran it. In 2006 Iraqi civilians took a stand against the insurgents and ran them out of town.During the past year or so Taliban insurgents appear to have taken ever less care to protect civilians. According to UN statistics, they were responsible for four-fifths of the 1,500-odd civilian deaths caused by fighting in the first six months of this year. One...    
                               AS A magnificent fast bowler, Imran Khan terrorised batsmen. Now a politician, he told an adoring crowd late last month that one of his feared inswingers would knock out both President Asif Zardari of the ruling Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and the main opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif. The next general election is due by early 2013 but likely to be called before that, possibly as early as the spring.Mr Khan captained the Pakistan cricket team to a famous world-cup victory in 1992, a moment Pakistanis still talk about. For 15 years he has tried to apply his looks and charisma to a political career. Until recently his efforts have underwhelmed. But after a huge and vibrant rally in Lahore, capital of Punjab province and the country’s second-biggest city, the mainstream parties can no longer ignore him. Some 100,000 cheering supporters showed up.Mr Khan dreams of leading a mass movement of motivated Pakistanis calling for an Augean clean-up of the country’s abysmally corrupt politics. He adds a strong dose of conservative (though not radical) Islam to the mix. Meanwhile he calls for Pakistan to walk away from its...    
                               “THEY are suffering. They have no rights”, says a red-robed monk of his fellow Tibetan Buddhists on the other side of a snow-topped mountain in Sichuan province, in south-west China. His small monastery in Songpan county has so far been spared the worst of an intense security clampdown in Tibetan areas of Sichuan, following a series of self-immolations by Tibetan protesters, most of them monks and nuns. China calls them terrorists, and fears the suicides could spark renewed unrest across the vast plateau.Over three years ago Tibet and Tibetan-inhabited parts of Sichuan, Qinghai, Gansu and Yunnan were engulfed by the biggest wave of anti-Chinese unrest in decades. Today it is in Sichuan’s highlands that the authorities appear to be struggling most to contain simmering discontent among ethnic Tibetans. Sichuan’s two “autonomous prefectures” with large Tibetan populations are Aba (Ngawa in Tibetan) and Ganzi (Kardze), whose combined area is almost the size of Great Britain. Much of the area was once part of the famously warlike traditional Tibetan region of Kham. In 1991, China’s then Communist Party chief, Jiang...    
                               CLIMATE change threatens the Mekong river, continental South-East Asia’s lifeblood, at both source and mouth. As glaciers shrink in the Tibetan Himalayas from where the river springs, so will the snow melt that helps to feed it; as sea levels rise, salination will worsen in the Mekong delta in Vietnam at the far end of its 5,000km (3,200-mile) length. Yet it is what is planned in between—no fewer than 19 dams on the mainstream, in addition to dozens on its tributaries—that is terrifying ecologists. The flows of fertile sediment that have for centuries sustained farmers along the Mekong’s banks will diminish. Species of fish that have provided livelihoods and protein for millions of people (some 60m live in the lower Mekong basin) are unlikely to survive the obstacles to their migrations.Four dams have already been built and another is under construction on the northern half of the river in China, which is hungry for its hydroelectric potential. China argues that its full “cascade” of eight dams, to be completed within a couple of decades, will enable it to help avert the dreadful wet-season flooding to which the...    
                     That’s all it takes            FOR a symptom of Pakistan’s problems, consider the spread of poliomyelitis. This week brought the 115th confirmed case of polio, a crippling and at times fatal disease passed on virally, mainly through bad hygiene. The tally is well up on last year.In most countries polio is barely a memory. Rich countries had largely eliminated it by the 1970s, and many poor countries soon followed suit. Three decades ago the world saw an estimated 400,000 polio cases a year. Thanks to a cheap and effective vaccine, administered by two drops into a child’s mouth and washed down with dollops of public and private money, the annual global number is now roughly 1,000.Only in South Asia and Nigeria is it still endemic, though it occasionally flares elsewhere. Since even wretched countries such as Sudan and Myanmar are rid of polio, doctors dream it could follow smallpox and rinderpest to become the third disease wiped from the planet. For hope, look at India. Last year it had just 44 cases of polio, down from an estimated 250,000 three decades ago. Sarah Crowe, of UNICEF in...    
                               ILLEGAL copying and sharing of copyrighted material is hard enough to stop within a country. But when the internet takes traffic across borders it is almost unmanageable. American-owned intellectual property, say, may be uploaded in one country and downloaded in a second, via a website whose computers are in a third, operated by anonymous enthusiasts (or criminals) from goodness-knows-where. So whom do you sue, and in which courts? The Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), now before America’s Congress, is the latest of many recent attempts to defend property rights on the internet.The bill aims to cut off Americans’ access to foreign pirate websites by squeezing intermediaries. Rights-holders, such as Hollywood film studios, will be able to request that a credit-card firm or advertising network stop doing business with a foreign site; or ask a search engine to take down links to the site; or ask an internet-service provider to block the site’s domain name, making it harder to reach. The intermediary then has just five days to comply or rebut the complaint; after that the rights-holder can go to court.This would rope...    
                     A severe challenge to Islamic comedians            IT IS Friday night at the O2 arena in London and the crowd is hearing a confession from Preacher Moss, a black American convert to Islam: “I’m not going to lie about the things I did before I became a Muslim,” he tells the audience. “Like have fun.” Amid appreciative guffaws he continues in the same vein. When he gave up boozing and womanising, he confides, his mother thought he was gay.Comedians like Mr Moss have a difficult job. Islam and humour seem an unlikely combination. Unflattering cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad have led to death threats, riots, and most recently the firebombing this month of a satirical French weekly after it published an issue featuring Islam’s founder as “guest editor” with the promise: “100 lashes if you don’t die of laughter!” To many, that chimes all too well with Ayatollah Khomeini’s apocryphal statement that “there are no jokes in Islam”. Even the most daring Islamic comedians rarely if ever joke about the faith itself. Some countries ban jokes about religious leaders.Yet Muslim comedians are thriving....    
                               EVEN before Plato conceived the philosopher-king, people yearned for clever, dispassionate and principled government. When the usual run of rulers proves cowardly, indecisive or discredited, turning to the wisdom and expertise of a technocrat, as both Italy and Greece have done in recent days, is particularly tempting.Part of the attraction of the term “technocrat”, however, is that the label is so stretchy. Does it mean just any expert in government, or one from outside politics? How many technocrats, and in which positions, justify a government’s “technocratic” label? Does such an administration operate within the political system, or supplant it? For how long? Can a technocrat evolve into a politician and vice versa? The answers are imprecise and shift over time.Technocracy was once a communist idea: with the proletariat in power, administration could be left to experts. But the appliance of science to politics was popular under capitalism too. A fully fledged Technocratic movement flourished in America in the inter-war period: it believed in an economy based on measuring energy inputs rather than prices, and...    
                     A sunnier outlook in Alaska than in Greece            HELLENIC opinion was outraged last year when Frank Schäffler, a German politician, advised “bankrupt Greeks” to “sell your islands…and sell the Acropolis too!” That is hardly practical politics: as long as Greece remains a democracy, the political, and perhaps biological, lifespan of a leader who proposed hauling down the flag over even the tiniest Aegean outcrop would be measured in hours.The furore obscured what Mr Schäffler was proposing: lease, commercial sale or a transfer of sovereignty. The government is already selling some land. The Institute for Strategic and Development Studies, a think-tank in Athens, says the Greek state has €35 billion ($47 billion) of property immediately available, which could cover 10% of its debt. KAPPA, a business lobby, suggests €75 billion. Stefanos Manos, an ex-finance minister, says a new state investment company could manage and dispose of property worth €200 billion. But just imagine that the exasperated northerners were dreaming of something more radical: fully ceding sovereign authority.Territorial...    
                               IF SHAKIRA, a Colombian pop star, marries her boyfriend, the Spanish national footballer Gerard Piqué, the only unusual things about it would be that she is even more famous than he is and ten years older. Otherwise, theirs would be just a celebrity example of one of the world’s biggest social trends: the rise of international marriages—that is, involving couples of different nationalities.A hundred years ago, such alliances were confined to the elite of the elite. When Randolph Churchill married Jennie Jerome of New York, it seemed as if they had stepped from the pages of a Henry James novel: brash, spirited American heiress peps up the declining fortunes of Britain’s aristocracy. Now, such alliances have become almost commonplace. To confine examples to politicians only: the French president Nicolas Sarkozy is married to the Italian-born Carla Bruni and his prime minister François Fillon has a Welsh wife, Penelope Clarke. Nelson Mandela is married to Graça Machel (from Mozambique). Denmark’s new prime minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt is married to a Briton, Stephen Kinnock. And two leading ladies of Asian...    
    IF YOU want to hand over a few millions for a criminal purpose, you must conceal what you are doing. Time was when an anonymous bank account was ideal. Except that these are all but extinct. The new way is to get someone to set up or buy a firm or trust (or better still a web of them) on your behalf.                           A new report by the World Bank called “The Puppet Masters” has investigated some 150 cases of what it calls “grand corruption”, with a total of $50 billion in illicit assets. Nearly all involved use of companies in which the real ownership was concealed, and of bank accounts, often in respectable countries (see chart). The United States is “by far the worst performer” of the countries reviewed. As a test, one of the authors set up a firm in Nevada with a nominee director based in Panama, complete with an American bank account. All he needed was an unnotarised copy of a driving licence (which showed an out-of-date address) and $3,695.The report recommends tightening the definition of “beneficial ownership” to focus on the control exercised over a company and the benefit derived; the end point should always be a...    
                     The old party line            NODDING his head towards a picture of Mao Zedong hanging from a large ornamental rock, an elderly man declares loudly: “This is our Wall Street”. A group of greybeards, some sporting Mao badges, murmur in assent. Public displays of dissent generally fare poorly in China. But on Zhouwangcheng Square, in the central city of Luoyang, the “big rock”, as locals affectionately call it, has been tolerated as a meeting point for former workers in Luoyang’s state-owned enterprises. Perhaps because they are advocating a return to Communism’s roots rather than its overthrow, Mao-lovers, sometimes numbering several hundred, are able to gather and bemoan China’s slide into the abyss of capitalism.A foreign visitor is quickly surrounded by bitter Maoists (one offering a badge of the Great Helmsman as a token of welcome). They raucously complain about China’s growing gap between rich and poor and its “bubble” economy. The watchful eyes of people suspected to be plainclothes police, and the towering presence of Luoyang’s futuristic police headquarters at the far end of the...    
                     Single to Stockholm, economy class            NO LONGER quite the cause célèbre he once was, Julian Assange was in court without his celebrity backers on November 2nd, when he failed in an appeal against his extradition to Sweden, where prosecutors want to question him on sex-assault charges. The WikiLeaks whistle-blowing site he founded is in trouble too: it has suspended most of its operations as it grapples with banks and payment-card companies that block its transactions.Mr Assange’s lawyers had challenged a European Arrest Warrant (EAW), normally enforced automatically, on four main grounds. Two High Court judges firmly rejected them all in terms that leave little room for a further appeal. They did not accept that the Swedish prosecutor was the wrong judicial authority to order an extradition; their judgment also said it did not matter that Mr Assange has not yet been accused of an offence in Sweden. Nor did it accept that the events being investigated were too minor, or too poorly described, to be an offence in England too (this “dual criminality” test is a central feature of the...    
                     Ganges water, reverently abused            TIME was when religious travellers had light footprints. The hero of “Way of a Pilgrim”, a 19th-century Russian spiritual classic, asked only for dry bread and seasonal farm work as he roamed the tsar’s realms, dreaming of the day when he (and perhaps a few thousand others in a typical year) would embark for Jerusalem.Now around 100m people a year make a pilgrimage, according to the Alliance of Religions and Conservation, a body that this week summoned representatives of the world’s main faiths to the pure air of Assisi, an Italian hilltop town, to see how religious travel might be made more environmentally benign. As well as the Assisi authorities, delegates at this week’s gathering came from pilgrimage destinations such as the Sikh holy city of Amritsar, the Armenian sacred capital of Echmiadzin, Haifa in Israel, revered by Bahais, and Kano in Nigeria, an important centre for Muslims.In the Western world, a Catholic making for a shrine like Walsingham in England or the (still hugely popular) medieval pilgrimage site of Santiago de Compostela in...    
    SCREAMING hordes of teenage girls are a common sight at pop concerts and film premières. They are less usual when waiting to hear a religious preacher. But such girls—one gasping “I can see him, I can see him” through the folds of her  niqab —awaited Moez Masoud, an Egyptian televangelist, recently in Cairo. He is part of a growing band of Islamic preachers who are true celebrities, says Yasmin Moll, a researcher at New York University, who attended Mr Masoud’s talk.They draw on a Christian tradition pioneered in the 1950s by such preachers as Billy Graham. For the past ten years Amr Khaled, an Egyptian one-time accountant turned televangelist star, has led the way. Previously television preachers fitted the stereotype of white-haired, bearded sheikhs in white robes, monotonously exhorting the faithful, in classical Arabic, to follow the strictures of Islam more exactly.In 2001 Mr Khaled burst onto screens with his show “Words from the Heart” and his brand of modern, moderate piety. Sharp-suited, mustachioed and speaking colloquial Egyptian, Mr Khaled and his audience (of men and women) discussed the concerns of young Muslims, such as whether Islam forbids cinema-going.Others have followed in his footsteps. Egyptians dominate, including Mr Masoud and Mustafa Hosny. In Indonesia Abdullah Gymnastiar, known as “Elder Brother Gym”, attracted millions of...    
                               MANY mocked, but the money rolled in. For the last few weeks of 2010 Jimmy Wales fixed his piercing gaze on Wikipedia users, imploring them from banner ads to help “the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit” pay its bills for this year. The founder’s plea worked. Wikipedia reached its target of $16m in just 50 days (compared with $8.7m in 67 days at the end of 2009).This month those pleading banners will return—but with many sets of eyes. Backing up the earnest Mr Wales in the attempt to raise $25m by the year-end will be Brandon Harris, a long-haired programmer wearing a full-sleeved T-shirt and a surly expression, who says he quit his job building “some crappy thing that’s designed to steal money from some kid who doesn’t know it” to work with Wikipedia. 400m unique users every month make it the world’s fifth-biggest website, according to Alexa, an internet research company. It also has a good claim to be the world’s most important provider of non-entertainment content.Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit company that runs the online encyclopedia, has devoted much effort towards finding a way around its...    
    BIG numbers and online crime go together. One well-worn assertion is that cybercrime revenues exceed those from the global trade in illegal drugs. Another nice round number is the $1 trillion-worth of intellectual property that, one senator claimed earlier this year, cybercriminals snaffle annually.It is hard to know what to make of these numbers. Online crooks, like their real-world brethren, do not file quarterly reports. In the absence of figures from the practitioners, experts tend to fall back on surveys of victims, often compiled by firms that sell security software. These have a whiff of self interest about them: they are the kind of studies that get press released but not peer reviewed.A paper by two researchers at Microsoft, Dinei Florencio and Cormac Herley, shows why: because losses are unevenly distributed. Most people never have their bank accounts raided by cyber criminals, but an unfortunate few do, and lose a lot. This means that per capita losses, which the surveys calculate before extrapolating to a national figure, are dominated by a handful of big online heists. Errors in the reporting of such infrequent crimes have a huge effect on the headline figure. In a 1,000-person survey in America, for example, exaggerating the impact of a single crime by $50,000 would add $10 billion to the national figure.Other data can be skewed this way too. But those who...    
    BRIBERY involves two parties, not one. Lambasting officials in poor countries for their sticky fingers is usually easier (and less open to legal challenge) than investigating those who suborn them.But on November 2nd Transparency International, a Berlin-based campaigning group, published an updated version of its Bribe Payers Index. Based on questions to 3,000 businessmen, this ranks 28 countries (accounting for 80% of global trade and investment) by the perceived likelihood of their companies paying bribes. Russia and China scored worst by a hefty margin. Dutch and Swiss companies were seen as the cleanest, with Belgium, Germany and Japan close behind. Construction and industries involving government contracts, unsurprisingly, were the dirtiest.Disappointingly, the latest version of the index shows no significant change since the previous edition in 2008. That comes despite some big shifts in national legislation and international anti-bribery activity. Recent prosecutions under America’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act have sent culprits to jail for record terms. The former boss of an America-based telecoms firm, Joel Esquenazi, received a 15-year jail sentence on October 25th for paying nearly $900,000 in bribes to Haiti’s national telephone company. An accomplice received a seven-year sentence.   ...     
    RUSSIA may sound an unlikely place for a bold experiment in participatory democracy. But Wikivote, an online forum where citizens collaborate in redrafting laws, seems to be enjoying unlikely early success there.The website displays a draft law and lets users propose rewrites of each paragraph; others can vote on the suggestions. In another section they can debate “thorny questions”. A reputation-rating system gives serious users’ votes more weight; invited experts get even more. The site’s first full-scale test came earlier this year, when protests erupted over a new fisheries bill that proposed charging Russians for their beloved pastime of fishing in public waterways. At the government’s behest, Wikivote posted the draft bill; it went through two redrafts with over 1,000 proposed modifications, according to Vasiliy Burov, one of the project’s creators. On the site now is a longer and trickier education bill.Successful examples of legislation by the masses are rare. Most people don’t know how to write laws. Tim Bonnemann, the founder of Intellitics, an American firm specialising in public-participation tools, says a better method is to canvas views widely but use a small team to write a draft. The hard part is not the technology (a simple online discussion forum is adequate) but creating a fair and transparent process that assures people their voices have been heard....    
                               AS PROTESTANT Europe, in its own eyes virtuous and thrifty, wrestles with the debt problems of the continent’s Catholic and Orthodox countries, the idea that religious affiliation may influence the way people save, work and spend is more appealing than ever. The toppling of Arab tyrants has lent urgency to a similar enquiry: do Islam and Islamism permit the legal and social conditions that make for prosperity?Clearly many modern religious leaders have strong ideas about economics. In western Europe, organised Christianity often acts as a modest voice in the ranks of the egalitarian left. This month’s anti-banker protests in London initially found a friendly base for their tent city at Saint Paul’s cathedral. (In recent days, Richard Chartres, the bishop of London, has asked them to leave, while acknowledging that they had raised important issues.) In America religious voices both praise and decry the capitalist order. Also on the borderline between economics and ethics, many religious leaders have taken up the cause of climate change, and urged people to change their behaviour—though this week an Australian...    
                               THE aims may be incoherent, but the common threads are clear. The protests that have mushroomed in over 900 cities in 80-plus countries over the past few days have voiced few practical demands, and in some cases they actually avoid making any. Participants favour the general over the specific. They think need matters more than greed. They like decisions by consensus, distrust elites and feel that capitalism’s pains and gains are unfairly shared. Beyond that, the horizon clouds.In many cities (notably London, which has followed the example set by Occupy Wall Street in New York) the protesters have set up encampments that are meant to last indefinitely; in others they came and went. Defining where the wave of protests started is hard. Some point to Israel, where public unhappiness focused on the cost of food, housing and education. Spain’s  indignados , or indignant ones, still going strong since their start in May, have a claim too. But the protesters’ brand (not a term they would all welcome) is most firmly linked to New York. Now in its second month, the Occupy Wall Street encampment in...    
                     What did the referee see?            ATHLETES have always needed arbiters. In the ancient Olympics ten purple-clad  hellanodikai —“judges of the Greeks”—were elected every four years from the ruling families in Elis, where the games were held. They ensured good behaviour by having miscreants publicly flogged.Today’s referees lack such deterrents—and professional sportsmen can transgress in a way that their classical predecessors could scarcely have imagined. In 1947 Stephen Potter, a British author, jokingly coined the term “gamesmanship” for “the art of winning games without actually cheating” (though he suggested breaking an opponent’s concentration, rather than misleading the referee). Modern athletes, fuelled by colossal rewards, can easily be tempted into misbehaviour. They end up playing the system not the game, by duping the ref into making wrong but favourable decisions. Ultimately that destroys the point of sport. Few would wish to see it reduced (like some kinds of wrestling) to an acting competition.Races such as running, cycling or motor sports offer little scope...    
                               UNDER intense international pressure to lift banking secrecy, the first and biggest of the world’s “tax havens”—places that charge low or no taxes to foreigners—is ceding some ground. In a deal signed on October 6th, Switzerland agreed to tax money held in its banks by British residents (it had already done a similar deal with Germany). These customers face a levy of up to 34% as well as, from 2013, a withholding tax.That could bring the British treasury around £5 billion ($7.8 billion). But Nicholas Shaxson, author of “Treasure Islands”, a book on offshore finance (and a former contributor to this paper), calls it a “Swiss tax swizz”: the country will in effect pay a fat fee to avoid revealing clients’ names. That undermines efforts at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, a Paris-based club of mostly rich countries, to set international standards on tax evasion.The fact that Switzerland did a deal at all reflects a changing climate for offshore finance, which has flourished for 50 years. Its defenders still have strong arguments to muster. The most controversial is the Swiss stance, which...    
                               UGANDA is not best known as a testbed for new ideas in governance. But research there by Jakob Svensson at the University of Stockholm and colleagues suggested that giving people health-care performance data and helping them organise to submit complaints cut the death rate in under-fives by a third. Publishing data on school budgets reduced the misuse of funds and increased enrolment.Whether dewy-eyed or hard-edged, examples abound of the benefits of open government—the idea that citizens should be able see what the state is up to. Estonians track which bureaucrats have looked at their file. Indians scrutinise officials’ salaries painted on village walls. Russians help redraft laws. Norwegians examine how much tax the oil industry pays. Many see openness as a cure for corruption and incompetence in public administration. The problem is how to turn the fan base into an effective lobby.A new global club may help. The Open Government Partnership (OGP), launched last month at the UN, sets basic standards of openness, such as publishing a draft state budget. Any country that meets them can join. Eight (America, Brazil...    
                     Call me a tiger and I’ll show you my claws            IN ITS five years of life the United Nations Human Rights Council has been more pilloried than praised. The pious posturing of countries renowned for beastliness to their citizens incenses critics. So does the triumph of politics over humanitarian principle, the knee-jerk condemnation of Israel and a blind eye turned to most other countries’ abuses. Yet in this unpromising setting, some positive signs are visible.Next week a Haitian official will deliver the final report in the first cycle of the Universal Periodic Review, a unique (for the UN) four-year process in which every government must submit an account of its human rights to the scrutiny of its peers. Few believe that this will change behaviour in Iran, Myanmar or North Korea. Even in milder cases, the practical gain will be clear only in the second four-year cycle when the council hears how governments have responded to the 20,000-odd recommendations from the first round.But human-rights lobbyists say it has helped to highlight their cause, not least by giving local campaigners new...    
                     When Ratan Tata retires...            COMPANY bosses come and go, and their importance is often exaggerated by credulous business hacks. But in Ratan Tata’s case, the attention is merited. Since he took over Tata Sons in 1991, he has built a decaying family firm into India’s biggest and most international business, with sales of $83 billion. He is the undisputed colossus of corporate India. Small wonder the announcement of his successor on November 23rd made a splash.Cyrus Mistry will be the new chairman; the last person without the Tata surname to hold that post died in 1938. He will take over in December 2012, after shadowing Mr Tata for a year.Tata stands for a very Indian way of organising a firm. It is a giant, complex 143-year-old conglomerate under its fifth generation of family leadership. One Tata bigwig recently joked that were “Neutron” Jack Welch, a former boss of General Electric, to take charge of Tata, the firm would be ripped apart in the name of shareholder value. So Indians are curious to know whether Tata under Mr Mistry will move beyond family management without breaking up. What happens at...    
                     Not all air travel is miserable            EXECUTIVES at aircraft-makers sometimes grumble that there are too many air shows nowadays. But it was well worth their turning up to Dubai’s, held on November 13th-17th, given the bumper orders they won. The star of the show was Qatar Airways’ wonderfully outspoken boss, Akbar Al Baker, who gave Airbus the runaround for almost three days—at one point publicly accusing it of still learning how to make planes—before agreeing to buy 55 of them, worth $6.4 billion at list prices. Even this whopping order was put into the desert shade by Emirates’ $18 billion order for Boeings, with options to buy a further $8 billion-worth. As the Dubai show ended, President Barack Obama, on a visit to Indonesia, witnessed Boeing sign a record $21.7 billion deal with Lion Air, with options to buy a further $14 billion-worth.Of course, orders this big enjoy substantial, undisclosed discounts from the sticker price. But the two main makers of full-sized commercial jets can look forward to years of guaranteed business, with firm orders at a record (see chart). The...    
                     For some reason, shoppers shun Juárez            A STEEL fence is all that separates El Paso, in west Texas, from Ciudad Juárez, in northern Mexico, and it has never stopped business flowing across the border. Drinks, dentistry and divorces have been served up to bargain-seeking gringos for decades. But since fighting erupted among local drug-traffickers in 2007, Juárez has seen more violence than anywhere on Earth, battlefields aside. The murder rate last year was over 200 per 100,000 people, more than ten times the national average and 200 times the rate in El Paso. In a once-busy tourist area close to the border, well over half the shops are boarded up.Visitors “think Mexico is a country at war,” says one dentist with a practice close to the frontier. Since the violence ratcheted up, three-quarters of his mainly American patients have decided that crossing the border for half-price drilling is not worth the risk. It does not help that since September 11th 2001 crossing the border can take up to two hours, rather than a few minutes. Most gringo-oriented businesses have struggled: a few blocks...    
                               SHALE gas has turned the American energy market on its head. Production has soared twelvefold since 2000, to 4.9 trillion cubic feet, or a quarter of the country’s total gas output. By 2035 the proportion could rise to half. As the shale gas flows, prices have come crashing down. Not long ago, America depended on imports of liquefied natural gas. Now it is likely to become a gas exporter. These benefits have not gone unnoticed in Europe.The old continent has nearly as much technically recoverable shale gas (natural gas trapped in shale formations) as America. Europe’s reserves are 639 trillion cubic feet, compared with America’s 862, according to America’s Energy Information Administration, a government agency. But technically recoverable does not mean economically recoverable, notes Peter Hughes of Ricardo Strategic Consulting.Costs are higher in Europe, for several reasons. First, European geology is less favourable: its shale deposits tend to be deeper underground and harder to extract.Second, America has a long history of drilling for oil and gas, which has spawned a huge and competitive oil-services industry...    
                               WHEN it comes to e-commerce, America is still top dog, with some 170m punters scouring for bargains on the internet. However, China is not far behind, with 145m online shoppers, and it could become the world’s most valuable e-commerce market within four years.In a new report, the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) calculates that every year for the foreseeable future another 30m Chinese will go online to shop for the first time. By 2015 they will each be spending $1,000 a year—about what Americans spend online now. BCG calculates that e-commerce could rise from 3.3% of China’s retail sales today to 7.4% by 2015—a jump that took a decade in America.The Chinese government has heavily subsidised the rollout of high-speed access, so internet penetration now approaches rich-country levels. That boosts e-commerce, of course. But so, too, do the shortcomings of China’s costly, inefficient bricks-and-mortar retailers.For example, a quarter of Chinese shoppers seek products online because they are not available at physical stores. Also, until recently, China lacked a reliable and cheap method of shipping packages, so the e-commerce industry...    
                               WHY do some companies flourish for decades while others wither and die? Jim Collins got his start as a management guru puzzling about corporate longevity. Given that Mr Collins has remained at the top of his profession for almost two decades, it is worth applying the same question to him.How has he produced one bestseller after another? His latest book, “Great by Choice”, is piled high in every bookstore. A previous one, “Good to Great”, sold more than 4m copies. And how has he achieved such oracular influence over bosses? In 2009, for example, Akio Toyoda, the president of Toyota, stunned the car industry by announcing that he had been reading Mr Collins’s “How the Mighty Fall” and had concluded that his company was in the fourth of Mr Collins’s five stages of decline.Part of the answer lies in timing. “Built to Last” (1994) was a counterblast to the craze for ripping firms apart and “re-engineering” them. “Good to Great” (2001) was an antidote to the despair that gripped America in the wake of September 11th 2001 and the dotcom bust. “How the Mighty Fall” (2009) appeared as Lehman Brothers disintegrated and...    
    In " Sexual harassment: Nasty, but rarer " (November 12th) we said that the number of cases tracked by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has risen. In fact the number of cases has fallen considerably and preliminary figures for 2011 show that the number continues to drop. Sorry.    
                               AT FIRST blush, Chow Tai Fook (CTF) may seem to be in a spot of bother. The secretive Hong Kong-based chain of jewellery stores, which on some measures is the world’s largest, has long wanted to float shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Alas, this week it was forced to scale back both the valuation and the size of its planned offering. Market rumours now suggest it will float about $3 billion-$4 billion-worth of shares next month.That may be less lucrative than it hoped for, but do not shed any tears for Cheng Yu-tung, the firm’s billionaire boss. The weakness of this deal (which would still rank as one of the bigger placements this year) has more to do with market turmoil than any specific snags confronting CTF. Though almost unknown in the West, the firm is a goliath, with a reported $4.5 billion in sales last year, leaping ahead at a rate of over 50% a year. It is already more than twice the size of Tiffany & Co, a posh American jeweller. A recent analysis by George Washington University and L2, a think-tank, found the brand is better known in China than Rolex, Bulgari or Tiffany.Considering...    
                               LIKE many airline promoters, Vijay Mallya of Kingfisher (pictured above) has long cultivated a flamboyant image, from his Branson-esque facial hair, sponsorship of sports teams and collection of flash cars to his promotion of a swimwear calendar and innuendo-laden promise, replayed on in-flight videos during take-off, that he has personally selected each of the Indian airline’s routinely gorgeous cabin crew.On November 15th, though, he struck a more sober and articulate note as he faced a press pack in Mumbai hungry to know if his airline, India’s second-biggest, is going bust. Mr Mallya insisted that “to write the epitaph of Kingfisher constantly is not fair,” adding, “We realise our responsibility to our customers and our country.”Despite his goatee, Mr Mallya deserves a hearing. From a customer’s perspective his airline is excellent. And over the decades since he inherited the family firm he has also built up a bigger operation in beer and spirits (the Kingfisher logo graces bottles of lager as well as Airbus A320s) which has delivered strong shareholder returns.Yet the financial facts speak for themselves....    
    “BREAK Ya Neck” is the title of one of the many ditties to have tripped off the tongue of Busta Rhymes over the years. On November 16th the rapper and a number of other well-known musicians were on hand to help mark the launch of Google’s new online music service. Although the internet giant is not planning to snap any necks, it would dearly like to break the vice-like grip that Apple has on the $6.3 billion a year digital-music business thanks to the success of its iTunes online store and devices such as the iPod. But doing so will not be easy.Google’s decision to launch its own music store is the latest salvo in a wider conflict being waged by the titans of the tech world. Like spiders spinning vast webs, Apple, Amazon and Google are doing their best to create huge “ecosystems” of tightly linked electronic devices and online services that snare consumers and discourage them from switching to rivals’ offerings. Digital music has a special place in these systems because of its popularity and because Apple has shown that it can be a money-spinner too.Hence Google’s determination to take on Apple and Amazon, which is also developing an online-music business of its own. Earlier this year, Google launched Music Beta, a service limited to the American market that lets consumers upload songs to a digital “locker” on its servers and then listen to them on any PC with a web...    
                               THANKSGIVING DAY, which this year falls on Thursday November 24th, is fast approaching and retailers in America are getting ready to lay out their wares in the hope that the annual stampede by shoppers will be bigger and better than ever before. But for some, it will not be. Normally the big day is “Black Friday”, so named because the day after the holiday is when retailers supposedly move into the black and become profitable. Some stores, it seems, cannot wait that long and are going nocturnal. They are rolling out their special offers at midnight on the Thursday or earlier in the evening.An online petition organised by a disgruntled employee has been raised against the midnight opening by Target, a big retailing chain. It has been signed by over 100,000 people asking Target to reverse its decision. But that is unlikely.Target is not alone among the large retailers in moving the big shopping day forward. Macy’s, Best Buy and Kohl’s plan to be open at midnight on Thanksgiving. As for the biggest of all, Walmart, most of its stores are open 24 hours. It will, though, make special offers available on toys, home...    
                     Someone spilled hypocrisy on aisle five            AS HE applied sunscreen to his young daughter’s face, Dara O’Rourke, a professor of environmental and labour policy at the University of California, Berkeley, found himself wondering if the lotion was safe. He realised there was no readily available answer. The result—two years, a team of chemists, lots of testing and a chunk of venture capital later—is GoodGuide.com. Launched in 2008, this is a website and smartphone app that rates 140,000 consumer products (currently only in America) according to their safety, environmental sustainability and the ethics of the firms that make them. Now GoodGuide has created a new “purchase analyser” app designed to inform consumers not just about the values embedded in products, but also about whether they are the virtuous shoppers they say they want to be.Using the new app requires selecting a series of characteristics, which can range from whether the user favours organic products to buying only from firms with a good human-rights record. (It also rates how competitively things are priced, via a...    
                               EVERY year, Sophie de Menthon, a French entrepreneur, holds an event called  J’aime ma boîte  (I love my firm) in Paris. The idea is to counter the notion that the French don’t like work. Employees are enticed to make lip dubs (a video of them lip-synching to music, if you need to ask), massage each other, vote for the nicest colleague, arrange for the accountant to swap jobs with the secretary and other stunts to celebrate their firm.The much-mocked campaign has not had much luck. In 2007 a national strike interrupted the festivities, and in 2009 a series of suicides at France Télécom spoilt the atmosphere. This year employees showed less love for their  boîte  than ever before. Only 64% of those polled liked their company, down from 79% in 2005.A truer reflection of work attitudes came this summer when French workers covered office windows with huge pictures made up of Post-it notes. Employees at GDF-Suez, a utility, stuck thousands of them to the windows of its HQ near Paris to represent Tintin, a comic-strip hero. Société Générale’s bankers responded with a picture...    
                               WHEN China joined the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in December 2001, many people hoped that this would curb the power of its state-owned enterprises. Ten years on, they seem stronger than ever. President Hu Jintao can expect to hear about this at the Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation summit this weekend. Hillary Clinton, America’s secretary of state, has warned stridently of the dangers of state capitalism. A Congressional report released on October 26th railed against the unfair advantages enjoyed by state-owned firms and lamented that China is giving them “a more prominent role”.Indeed it is. In a new book called “China’s Regulatory State”, Roselyn Hsueh of Temple University documents how, in sectors ranging from telecommunications to textiles, the government has quietly obstructed market forces. It steers cheap credit to local champions. It enforces rules selectively, to keep private-sector rivals in their place. State firms such as China Telecom can dominate local markets without running afoul of antitrust authorities; but when foreigners such as Coca-Cola try to acquire local firms, they can be blocked (...    
                     Spot the journalist            ABOARD one of the world’s largest container ships, moving almost imperceptibly through the seas off Vietnam, it’s easy to appreciate the economies of scale that allow a T-shirt made in China to be sent to the Netherlands for just 2.5 cents.The  Eleonora Maersk  and the other seven ships in her class are among the biggest ever built: almost 400m long, or the length of four football pitches, and another half-pitch across. The ship can carry 7,500 or so 40-foot containers, each of which can hold 70,000 T-shirts. On the voyage your correspondent took, the  Eleonora  was carrying Europe’s New Year celebrations: 1,850 tonnes of fireworks, including 30 tonnes of gunpowder.To move all this cargo from China to Europe in just over three weeks, the  Eleonora  boasts the largest internal-combustion engine ever built, as powerful as 1,000 family cars. This engine turns the longest propeller shaft (130m) ever made, at the end of which is the largest propeller, at 130 tonnes. Yet the ship is so automated that it...    
                     A bad day at the office            THREE women complained of unwanted advances from their boss at the National Restaurant Association. Two received financial settlements. Because the boss in question was Herman Cain, now a Republican presidential hopeful, this news has revived a long-running debate about sexual harassment in the workplace.The details of the complaints made in the settlements have remained private. A fourth woman who has alleged that Mr Cain groped her was not an employee at the time and did not receive any settlement. Mr Cain denies that he did anything inappropriate.“The fact that there has been a settlement does not by itself tell you there was any truth to the allegations,” says Richard Simmons, an employment lawyer at Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton. Firms often pay off disgruntled accusers rather than go to court, since juries are unpredictable, damages can be steep and the publicity of a trial is always unwelcome. Conservatives think the deck is stacked against employers. Liberals disagree.Mr Simmons thinks sexual harassment is much less widespread in the...    
    IT TOOK a while. But this week Olympus attempted to answer a question that has been making investors jumpier than a man with a scorpion in his trousers. Why did the Japanese camera maker shell out $1.3 billion in deals that had little to do with its core business and seemed unlikely ever to make a decent return?Olympus paid a $687m advisory fee relating to its purchase of Gyrus, a British medical-devices firm, in 2008. The fee was more than 30% of the purchase price, when 1% would have been more normal. It went to a firm in the Cayman Islands and another in New York; both are now defunct. Olympus also paid $773m for three unprofitable firms (a cosmetics company, a maker of plastic containers and a waste-disposal business). It wrote off 76% of their value within a year.Why did Olympus’s managers approve such unusual payments? On November 8th the company confessed that the deals were designed to hide losses on securities dating back to the 1990s. Olympus’s new president, Shuichi Takayama, said that three Olympus executives were implicated. Yet only one, Hisashi Mori, a vice-president, was dismissed by the board. (He chose to remain as a director.) As for the other two, Olympus said that the corporate auditor, Hideo Yamada, “expressed his intention to offer his resignation”, whatever that means. The other, Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, resigned as chairman after the scandal broke. But he...    
    WHEN a firm declares bankruptcy, shareholders are typically wiped out and creditors seize control. On November 7th Dynegy, an energy firm, announced a more unorthodox kind of bankruptcy. Its bondholders and other lenders are likely to take a 10% haircut while shareholders, including Carl Icahn, a maverick billionaire, will retain full control of the firm.This is the latest twist in a remarkable saga. Dynegy, a Houston-based firm, has fallen on hard times since it almost bought Enron, its local rival, in 2001. After Enron imploded,  Dynegy’s shares plunged, soared and then plunged again after 2007, as the economic downturn and a boom in natural gas depressed energy prices. Facing a liquidity crisis, management sought a buyer. Late last year, a campaign by Mr Icahn blocked the sale of the company to Blackstone, a private-equity firm, which was willing to pay $5 a share. Mr Icahn, who now owns 15% of the shares, offered to pay $5.50. After this week’s strange bankruptcy announcement, Dynegy’s share price is trading around $3.40.Under the deal to exit bankruptcy, which enough creditors are expected to approve (despite the risk of a legal challenge), bondholders will take a loss to reflect the firm’s current difficulties, but a smaller one than Dynegy’s management had wanted. In return, management and shareholders will get one more chance to turn things around thanks to a new (...    
                               FOR businesspeople who spend much of their time in the air, the three global airline clubs—Star Alliance, oneworld and SkyTeam—are all about such goodies as frequent-flyer points and access to comfy lounges. For the airlines that belong to them, the main benefit is that the other members hook them up with lots of passengers seeking connecting flights, helping them to fill their planes.Since the alliances started in the late 1990s, they have steadily signed up new members. Until recently SkyTeam, which includes Air France, KLM and Delta, was the laggard. But it has gained altitude by signing, among others, China Eastern and China Southern, two of China’s big three carriers. Star Alliance, which includes Lufthansa, United-Continental and Singapore Airlines, remains the biggest, having signed up Air China, the third of the mainland’s big three. Oneworld, which includes British Airways, American Airlines, Iberia and Cathay Pacific, will soon welcome aboard India’s Kingfisher.Now there are few big network airlines left to be nabbed. The juiciest prize still on offer is LATAM, a giant to be formed next year...    
                               THE rewards for digging carbon out of the ground differ wildly. A tonne of coal fetches around $120. A diamond for the same price would be so small you’d probably never find it in the first place. Anglo American, a big mining firm, struck a deal on November 4th at the loftier end of the market. It agreed to pay the Oppenheimer family (see  article ) $5.1 billion for their 40% stake in De Beers, the world’s leading diamond miner, to add to the 45% that Anglo already owns. It looks a fair price; the diamond industry’s prospects are sparkly.For a start, supply is tight. All the world’s big deposits are thought to have been discovered already. Old mines are growing tired. Total annual output will probably fall. At the same time, demand is roaring in China, India and the Gulf, where the new rich love ostentatious adornment. By 2015 these countries could be buying as many diamonds as America, which currently accounts for two-fifths of global demand. To add to the cheer, demand is growing rapidly in America, too. Diamond prices have...    
                               THOSE who watch the murkier overlaps between power and money in eastern Europe have long worried quietly about Lithuania’s Snoras Bankas, part of a business empire that includes the country’s leading daily paper. A government decision on November 16th to nationalise the bank, and the issuing on November 23rd of arrest warrants for two of its former shareholders, Vladimir Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas, on charges including embezzlement and forgery, add weight to those worries. (They deny wrongdoing and are threatening legal action.)The rumpus has rippled. Mr Antonov, through another company, owns a British football club, Portsmouth. It says it is unaffected. But the effect was dramatic in Latvia, where regulators closed a Snoras subsidiary, Krajbanka, the country’s sixth-biggest deposit-taker, saying 100m Latvian lati ($190.7m) appears to be missing. An insurance scheme covers deposits up to €100,000, but customers queued nervously outside the bank’s branches; for the time being they may withdraw only 50 lati a day. At Snoras the limit is a more generous 500 Lithuanian litai ($195).Latvian officials...    
    INVESTORS began 2011 with high hopes. Bob Doll of BlackRock, a fund-management group, expected double-digit gains from the American stockmarket; the strategists at Barclays Capital expected a 22% return from European shares.Instead Wall Street is flat and European investors have suffered double-digit losses. The year is ending in a mood of unrelenting pessimism. Although a spike in oil prices and Japan’s nuclear disaster have played their part, the real problem has been Europe. The debt crisis is deeper and more widespread than almost anyone feared at the start of the year.In a joke coined by Jim Grant, a newsletter writer, government bonds have turned from offering a risk-free return into becoming a return-free risk. Matt King, a credit strategist at Citigroup, thinks this change in attitude has been decisive. “The discovery that a credit you thought was safe, and accumulated a large exposure to, is actually rather risky, tends to lead to a wave of forced selling so strong that it can overwhelm the fundamentals.”The proposed 50% write-off for private-sector holders of Greek government debt must have played a part in this process. Fund managers now seem to be reluctant to hold any euro-zone government debt. Even in Germany, a bond auction failed on November 23rd, with only €3.6 billion ($4.8 billion) sold of a potential €6 billion issue.This sell-off sent ripples through...    
    IN 1990, one year after Japan’s bubble burst, the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) accounted for one-third of the world’s stockmarket capitalisation. Today it is a paltry 7%. Other Asian countries have become a beehive for investors and new listings. China’s bourses are now more valuable than Japan’s, where the Nikkei 225 index is at about a quarter of its 1989 peak.                           The long slide into semi-relevance explains the merger announced on November 22nd between the TSE, which dominates cash stock-trading, and the Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE), which focuses on derivatives. Put together, the firms overtake the London Stock Exchange to become the world’s third-largest market, after America’s NYSE and NASDAQ. But whereas the total value of shares traded on most exchanges had been increasing at a clipping pace—until global stockmarkets fell sharply in recent months—Tokyo’s market has been steadily losing ground (see chart).The bourses say their marriage is for “the revitalisation of the Japanese economy.” Atsushi Saito, the boss of the TSE and also of the new entity (tentatively called the Japan Exchange Group), hopes it...    
                     Paperboarding            CATCHING tax cheats is well and good in theory. Achieving that feat in practice is another matter. As fund managers are finding, the latest effort from the American authorities to root out those of their citizens who have been hiding their assets overseas is creating a bureaucratic nightmare around the world.The operation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) has already been postponed for a year because of the immense problems that it is going to cause global investors. The law requires that foreign financial institutions (a category that seems to include everybody from financial advisers to pension funds) register with the Internal Revenue Service by June 30th 2013. If they do not register, they will then be regarded as “non-participating”. In that case a 30% withholding tax will be applied to all their income on American assets from 2014 as well as to the proceeds from the sales of these assets from 2015.Since the American equity and bond markets are the biggest in the world, the vast majority of foreign fund managers will feel obliged to register. But that...    
                               THE result of headless-chicken financial markets or a canary in the coal mine? India is grappling with this question. On November 22nd the rupee fell to an all-time low against the dollar. The speed of the rout (see chart) has been scary for a place that was supposed to be largely insulated from the rich world’s troubles. It is 20 years since India had a balance-of-payments crisis and for a long time the talk has been about it becoming an economic superpower. But there lingers a memory of when it felt it was a financial hostage to the world, and this helps explain the whiff of panic now in the air. Mumbai’s financial types say that firms are scrambling to find dollars and that desperate euro-zone banks, which supply about half of India’s foreign loans, are cutting off credit lines.     
    MANY of the world’s financial and economic woes since 2008 began with the bursting of the biggest bubble in history. Never before had house prices risen so fast, for so long, in so many countries. Yet the bust has been much less widespread than the boom. Home prices tumbled by 34% in America from 2006 to their low point earlier this year; in Ireland they plunged by an even more painful 45% from their peak in 2007; and prices have fallen by around 15% in Spain and Denmark. But in most other countries they have dipped by less than 10%, as in Britain and Italy. In some countries, such as Australia, Canada and Sweden, prices wobbled but then surged to new highs. As a result, many property markets are still looking uncomfortably overvalued.Explore and compare global housing data over time with our   interactive house-price tool   The latest update of  The Economist ’s global house-price indicators shows that prices are now falling in eight of the 16 countries in the table, compared with five in late 2010. (For house prices from more countries see our website). To assess the risks of a further slump, we track two measures of valuation. The first is the price-to-income ratio, a gauge of affordability. The second is the price-to-rent...    
                     How big is your balance-sheet?            IN 1861 Shanghai came under attack from the Taiping rebellion, a bloody uprising led by the self-proclaimed younger brother of Jesus Christ. To help pay for their defence, China’s provincial governments borrowed money from foreign investors. As collateral, they offered claims on Shanghai’s customs revenues. Foreigners were happy to accept, because foreigners themselves ran the custom house.Provincial debt has its uses. Besides saving Shanghai from a divine  sibling, it is also a rational way to finance long-lived infrastructure, spreading costs over the same period as the benefits. But since 1994 China’s provincial and municipal governments have been prohibited from borrowing. That changed on November 15th when Shanghai sold the first bonds under a new scheme, raising 7.1 billion yuan ($1.1 billion).In allowing the sale the central government is quietly acknowledging that the 1994 ban has become counterproductive. It conspicuously failed to stop China’s sub-national governments from borrowing indirectly. They have set up more than 10,000 financing...    
    CONSIDER the priorities of the leaders of big American financial institutions in the aftermath of the financial crisis. They must cope with a deluge of murky new rules, respond to reams of litigation, reorganise mind-boggling capital structures, pacify anti-banker mobs (and anti-banker reporters), and cut compensation while artfully preserving their own perks.Put simply, says the head of one vast and troubled financial institution, risk must be reduced, liquidity increased and costs controlled. Missing from the list: providing credit for borrowers.One of the many vacuums this emphasis has produced is for middle-market lending—a statistically murky category whose rough definition could be credit for companies small enough to lack access to public markets but big enough to require vastly more funding than informal channels such as friends and family could provide.Not long ago this was prime territory for banks. It has not been entirely abandoned. GE Capital, CIT, SunTrust, Wells Fargo, US Bank and Bank of America are significant participants. But thousands of smaller banks, once a mainstay of this market, are no longer in business. Others have merged and lend less to midsized firms than their constituent parts once did.Among the reasons for this withdrawal are the managerial challenges of analysing the creditworthiness of small companies with none of the crutches that come...    
                               WHEN Mario Draghi took over as president of the European Central Bank at the beginning of this month, it was felt that he had to prove his credentials in Germany. That task is made harder by calls on the ECB to act as backstop to troubled Italy, Mr Draghi’s home country, and to contain a sovereign-debt crisis that is raising borrowing costs for most euro-zone countries, while driving them down in Germany.This week Jens Weidmann, the head of the Bundesbank, Germany’s central bank, raised the bond-market pressure on Italy and on Mr Draghi by saying that central-bank support for government finances would be illegal. Mr Weidmann told the  Financial Times  that the ECB could not act as a lender of last resort for countries, because in doing so it would transgress EU treaties banning direct financing of states. It would be counter-productive as well, argued Mr Weidmann. The roots of the euro-zone crisis lay with governments, and providing them with cheap financing would only reduce pressure for reform.With bond markets so febrile, Mr Weidmann’s comments were ill-timed. Yet his views were scarcely...    
                               ANGELA MERKEL, the German chancellor, spoke for many Europeans when she said last year that “We must re-establish the primacy of politics over the markets.” The Europeans created the euro to prevent the crises caused by currency speculators, only to find themselves pushed around by bond investors.Politicians have often cursed the markets. Harold Wilson, a British prime minister, used to fulminate against the “gnomes of Zurich” who speculated against the pound. In the mythology of the British Labour Party, a “bankers’ ramp” pushed the party out of office in 1931. James Carville, a political adviser to Bill Clinton, wanted to be reincarnated as the bond market so he could “intimidate everybody”.In theory, there is an easy answer. If you don’t want to be bothered about the bond markets, don’t borrow from them. The finance ministers of Norway and Saudi Arabia have no cause to worry about their borrowing costs because they are net creditors.Not all nations can be creditors, of course. But John Maynard Keynes’s plans for the post-1945 monetary system were aimed at limiting the imbalances that arose in the...    
                     The doctor says my structural pessimism is getting better            THE Japanese say they suffer from an economic disease called “structural pessimism”. Overseas too, there is a tendency to see Japan as a harbinger of all that is doomed in the economies of the euro zone and America—even though figures released on November 14th show its economy grew by an annualised 6% in the third quarter, rebounding quickly from the March tsunami and nuclear disaster.Look dispassionately at Japan’s economic performance over the past ten years, though, and “the second lost decade”, if not the first, is a misnomer. Much of what tarnishes Japan’s image is the result of demography—more than half its population is over 45—as well as its poor policy in dealing with it. Even so, most Japanese have grown richer over the decade.In aggregate, Japan’s economy grew at half the pace of America’s between 2001 and 2010. Yet if judged by growth in GDP per person over the same period, then Japan has outperformed America and the euro zone (see chart 1). In part this is because its population has shrunk whereas America’s...    
                     Mingling with the locals for the next great trade            “THIS is going to be the next great trade,” one American hedge-fund executive effused early this year. For more than two years funds have been salivating over the slew of assets that Europe’s banks will have to sell. Many have been opening offices in London and hiring to prepare for this “tidal wave” of opportunities.Up for grabs will be distressed corporate loans, property debt and non-core businesses as European banks shrink their balance-sheets to meet stricter capital requirements. Huw Van Steenis of Morgan Stanley estimates that banks will have to downsize their balance-sheets by €1.5 trillion-2.5 trillion ($2 trillion-3.4 trillion) over the next 18 months. Funds have only about $150 billion to spend on distressed debt in Europe, he reckons, which means they should have their pick of assets.For now the “next great trade” is not looking that good, mainly because there have been no fire sales. Most banks that are selling assets have priced them close to face value, providing little to entice buyers.Even where sales are agreed,...    
                               THE rich world’s crisis of unemployment would be painful enough on its own, but it comes on the heels of a generation of labour-market stagnation. Growth in inflation-adjusted incomes in the rich world slowed sharply as early as the 1970s. In America, median household income has actually fallen since 1999. Economic growth continues, but not all see the rewards. By some estimates, the top 1% of American earners captured 58% of the country’s economic growth between 1976 and 2007.Scapegoats, from crony capitalists to foreign-currency manipulators, are in no short supply, but technology is increasingly fingered as a culprit. Some economists reckon the problem with technology is that there is too little of it. Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University, says in a recent  e-book  that a “great stagnation” is under way. The gains from the big inventions of previous eras—electricity, jet engines and antibiotics, for example—are now exhausted, and new, comparable innovations are...    
    OF ALL the questions unleashed by the bankruptcy of MF Global, a broker, the most important is whether America is prepared to deal with a bigger collapse, on the scale of another Lehman Brothers. The Dodd-Frank reform law creates an alternative to letting a systemically important firm go bankrupt, known as “resolution”. But it also prohibits bail-outs: shareholders and creditors must bear losses. The Economist  simulated the failure of a global bank at its Buttonwood Gathering on October 27th in New York (a video can be seen  here ). Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary and once Barack Obama’s top economic adviser, was joined by five other ex-officials and a prominent bank lawyer to play the parts of officials at the Treasury, the White House and regulatory agencies on a Friday afternoon in April 2013. The group was confronted with a teetering, $1 trillion bank-holding company called New Jefferson. Without their intervention, it would not open on Monday, an event guaranteed to send markets into free fall.The participants soon found their options narrowing. There was no prospect of a private consortium propping up New Jefferson, as had happened with Long Term Capital Management, a hedge fund, in 1998. Improvements to derivatives markets since then have made it easier for banks to...    
                     Old boy in the chair            IN THE rarefied world of the corporate board, a good network matters. Recruitment often involves word-of-mouth recommendations: getting on a shortlist is easier if you have the right connections. New research suggests men use contacts better than women.Marie Lalanne and Paul Seabright of the Toulouse School of Economics measure the effect of a network on remuneration using a database of board members in Europe and America. They find that if you were to compare two executive directors, identical in every way except that one had 200 ex-colleagues now sitting on boards and the other 400, the latter, on average, would be paid 6% more. For non-executives the gap is 14%.The really juicy finding concerns the difference between the sexes. Among executive-board members, women earn 17% less than their male counterparts. There are plenty of plausible explanations for this disparity, from interruptions to women’s careers to old-fashioned discrimination. But the authors find that this pay gap can be fully explained by the effect of executives’ networks. Men can leverage...    
                               BEWARE Italian government debt. Rising yields increase the country’s financing costs and make it harder for the administration to balance its— We interrupt this column for a message from the European Commission. With Italy being advised by the International Monetary Fund, negative opinions about its bonds are not helpful. The publication of this article is not permitted. Thankfully, the EU has not decided to censor  The Economist . But a European Commission draft paper on credit-rating agencies does propose that, in some circumstances, they should be barred from changing their sovereign ratings.Let us be clear what that means. A credit rating is an opinion about the likelihood that a borrower will repay its debts. The issuers of these opinions are largely based in America, a land where free speech is constitutionally guaranteed. (Fitch has dual headquarters in New York and London, although its majority-owner is a French investor.)Even if the EU could get away with this censorship, what purpose would it really serve? At a crucial moment the agencies would have to declare...    
                               AS THE rich world lurches from one crisis to the next, a consolation has been that emerging economies, which account for about half of world output, have been growing quickly. Even the wretched euro zone has a few racy emerging markets nearby. Turkey has on occasion rivalled China, with GDP growth of around 9% in 2010. Poland’s was the only economy in the 27-strong European Union to avoid recession in 2009. Sadly, euro misery seems to love company. A deep recession in the currency zone would leave few countries unscathed, even in fast-growing emerging Asia. For developing economies closer to home, the euro zone’s banks may be the main route by which the suffering spreads.These banks are under pressure to meet higher capital-ratio targets as part of a deal made last month to “save” the euro. Lenders may choose to cut loans rather than raise equity, which would dilute existing shareholders (including bank executives). Europe’s banks are owed $3.4 trillion by emerging economies, $1.3 trillion of which has been lent to eastern Europe, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Many have subsidiaries in the...    
    ECONOMISTS are constantly urging governments to adopt policies that would reduce global imbalances—which, in crude terms, means that China should slash its current-account surplus and America its deficit. Yet they ignore the biggest imbalance of all: the current-account surplus that planet Earth appears to run with extraterrestrials. In theory, countries’ current-account balances should all sum to zero because one country’s export is another’s import. However, if you add up all countries’ reported current-account transactions (exports minus imports of goods and services, net investment income, workers’ remittances and other transfers), the world exported $331 billion more than it imported in 2010, according to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook. The fund forecasts that the global current-account surplus will rise to almost $700 billion by 2014.Are aliens buying Louis Vuitton handbags? Are little green men bagging the best sunbeds by the hotel pool? The more down-to-earth explanation is that the global surplus reflects statistical errors. Either the current-account deficits of countries such as America are being understated or the surpluses of countries like China are being overstated, and by a rising amount.   ...     
    THE high fees that private-equity firms charged in the boom, typically 2% of the assets they oversee (the “management” fee) and 20% of the upside (the “performance” fee), are harder to pocket now. Investors have been bearing down on these fees for the past two years. Even big firms are reportedly caving in, particularly for those writing large cheques.But one type of fee has bucked the trend. A new study by Dechert, a law firm, and Preqin, a research outfit, finds that “deal” fees, which portfolio companies have to pay to private-equity firms for various services, actually rose in 2009-10, in spite of all the hullabaloo around lower charges. Transaction fees, which buy-out firms charge firms when they buy them (and yes, you did read that right), went up by at least 25% on average for 2009-10 deals that were $500m or larger, compared with deals done between 2005 and 2008. Deals between $500m and $1 billion, for example, had an average transaction fee of 1.24% of the deal amount in 2009-10, compared with 0.99% in 2005-08. “Monitoring” fees, which portfolio companies pay their private-equity owners each year for advisory services, also went up.Deal fees essentially enable buy-out firms to get paid twice to do their job—first by investors and then by their portfolio companies. They even charge fees when they exit investments. When Nielsen, a market-research firm, went public...    
                               IN ASIA kingdoms are said to rise and fall with the shifting price of rice. So the continent’s rulers presumably ought to be worried by the effects of disastrous floods in Thailand, the world’s biggest exporter of the white grains (see chart).Last year Thailand provided about a third by volume of all internationally traded rice—around 10m tonnes. Thailand’s government reckons that some 5m-6m tonnes (nearly a fifth of the country’s total production) might have been destroyed by the deluge. Some analysts say that the damage could be even more severe. Pessimists worry that Thailand’s exports could be cut by 3m-4m tonnes. With the world trade in rice expected to hit over 33m tonnes in 2011 this could take around 10% out of the market. If the same thing happened with oil or wheat the results would be calamitous.But the nature of the rice market means that the consequences may not be as severe. Rice is a resilient crop, and the floods may not do as much damage as some fear. Although rice is a staple for half the world’s population, international trade is small compared with the 451m tonnes that will pop out of...    
                     An unkind cut?            CHILDHOOD anaemia is a problem. Around the world, almost a quarter of under-fives suffer from it. And anaemia is not a trivial thing. A child’s development, both physical and mental, is stifled by a lack of iron. The reason is that, besides its well-known role in haemoglobin, the oxygen-transporting molecule in the blood, iron is also involved in many aspects of brain development.A study just published in the  British Medical Journal  by Ola Andersson, an obstetrician at the Hospital of Halland in Halmstad, Sweden, suggests that a simple change of medical procedure when a child is born may bring a big reduction in anaemia. That change is not to cut the umbilical cord linking the child with the placenta straight after birth—as is standard practice—but, rather, to give it time to transfer more of the placenta’s contents (particularly its blood) to the child it has been nurturing.The argument in favour of rapid clamping is that too much blood may flow from the detached placenta to the newly born child, and that this can cause problems of its...    
                               EARTH excepted, the most probed and prodded planet in the solar system is Mars. Besides the assortment of craft that have flown by it or gone into orbit around it, three robotic buggies equipped with cameras and scientific instruments have roamed the Martian surface on behalf of NASA, America’s space agency, since 1997.If all goes according to plan, they will soon be joined by a fourth. On November 26th a new rover,  Curiosity , will ascend from Cape Canaveral. If it gets there in one piece, it will examine the climate and geology of Mars and look for any signs of life that might have arisen.The first of NASA’s rovers,  Sojourner , which reached Mars in 1997, was 65cm long and weighed (on Earth, where the gravitational pull is 2½ times Mars’s) 10kg.  Spirit  and  Opportunity , its twin successors, were larger, at 1.6 metres and 170kg.  Curiosity , by comparison, is a monster. At 3 metres and 900kg it is the size of a small car. It also uses different technology. The other three rovers were powered by...    
                               THINK of a university and what comes to mind may be the cloistered calm of Oxford, the architectural chaos of MIT or even, perhaps, the 1950s brutalism of Moscow. A Daliesque building on a subtropical island, with a view of the ocean and signs on campus warning of venomous snakes, is more unusual. But that is appropriate, for the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (OIST), inaugurated as a graduate university on November 19th, is intended to be unusual. It was built from scratch on a forested hilltop overlooking the East China Sea, and its approach to science starts from scratch too. It has no departments. Instead, its biologists, chemists, physicists, mathematicians and computer geeks intermingle, sharing laboratory equipment, teachers and money. After two centuries of science becoming more and more specialised, the idea is to bring back the generalist.Surprisingly, this experiment is taking place in Japan—a country with one of the most rigid academic hierarchies in the world. Locating it in Okinawa, though, is a masterstroke. The island, which is closer to Shanghai and Taipei than to Tokyo, is as cut off as is possible to...    
    SOMETHING odd is going on in the international AIDS establishment. December 1st has been designated (as it is every year) to be “World AIDS Day”. That is a signal for the United Nations to put out a report on the state of the epidemic. This year, though, there are to be two reports.On November 21st UNAIDS, an agency created in 1996 to deal specifically with the then-newish disease, published its assessment of the situation. This reaffirmed what has become clear recently: that the epidemic is being beaten back by the widespread deployment of drugs, in combination with changes in the behaviour of those most at risk. The annual number of deaths has fallen to 1.8m, from its peak of 2.2m in 2005. New infections have also fallen, from a peak of 3.2m in 1997 to 2.7m last year. The report went on to outline what it calls an investment framework, designed to deal with the epidemic in the most cost-effective way. This builds on an analysis published in the  Lancet  in June by Bernhard Schwartländer, UNAIDS’s director of evidence, strategy and results. It attempts to prescribe, for each part of the world, the mixture of drug treatment, condom-promotion, prophylactic circumcision and so on that will bring most benefit to the fight.On November 30th, however, a joint report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations’ Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and—you’...    
    CLIMATE science is famously complicated, but one useful number to keep in mind is “climate sensitivity”. This measures the amount of warming that can eventually be expected to follow a doubling in the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in its most recent summary of the science behind its predictions, published in 2007, estimated that, in present conditions, a doubling of CO2 would cause warming of about 3°C, with uncertainty of about a degree and a half in either direction. But it also says there is a small probability that the true number is much higher. Some recent studies have suggested that it could be as high as 10°C.If that were true, disaster beckons. But a paper published in this week’s  Science , by Andreas Schmittner of Oregon State University, suggests it is not. In Dr Schmittner’s analysis, the climate is less sensitive to carbon dioxide than was feared.Existing studies of climate sensitivity mostly rely on data gathered from weather stations, which go back to roughly 1850. Dr Schmittner takes a different approach. His data come from the peak of the most recent ice age, between 19,000 and 23,000 years ago. His group is not the first to use such data (ice cores, fossils, marine sediments and the like) to probe the climate’s sensitivity to carbon dioxide. But their paper is the most...    
                     A spinster of rare beauty            SPIDER silk is impressive stuff. Stronger than steel, flexible and exceedingly light. Barnacle glue is equally special. It holds an animal whose ancestors swam freely in the sea to rocks that are often battered by powerful waves. What, then, might a combination of the two achieve?Fritz Vollrath, of Oxford University, hopes to find out. As he describes in  N   aturwissenschaften , he and his colleagues have found that a small marine crustacean called  Crassicorophium bonellii  produces a material which has the adhesive characteristics of barnacle glue and the structural properties of spider-silk fibres. It is water-resistant and flexible, but also somewhat sticky, and is employed by the animals to construct tubular homes in the sediments of the sea bed.Dr Vollrath’s examination of  Crassicorophium  showed that the material is secreted by glands similar to those used by barnacles to make their cement. Given that  Crassicorophium  and barnacles are both...    
    HOW people collaborate, in the face of numerous temptations to cheat, is an important field of psychological and economic research. A lot of this research focuses on the “tit-for-tat” theory of co-operation: that humans are disposed, when dealing with another person, to behave in a generous manner until that other person shows himself not to be generous. At this point co-operation is withdrawn. Fool me once, in other words, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.When he encounters such a withdrawal of collaboration, the theory goes, the malefactor will learn the error of his ways and become a more co-operative individual. And there is experimental evidence, based on specially designed games, that tit-for-tat does work for pairs of people. Human societies, though, are more complex than mere dyads. And until recently, it has been difficult to model that complexity in the laboratory. But a paper published this week in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences  by Nicholas Christakis and his colleagues at Harvard has changed that. Dr Christakis arranged for a collaboration-testing game to be played over the web, with many participants. As a result, he and his team have gained a more sophisticated insight into the way co-operation develops.Dr Christakis used what is known as a public-goods game for his experiment. At the beginning of such a...    
                               IT HAS been a mixed week for proponents of regenerative medicine. This is the idea that worn-out organs might be repaired—or even replaced—using stem cells. A stem cell is one that, when it divides, spins off some offspring that remain as stem cells while others turn into functional tissue. Stem cells found in embryos can spin off a wide range of tissue types. Those found in adults are more limited: turning into blood cells, say, or muscle cells.The bad news for those who have hopes of the field is that Geron, an American firm that was a pioneer of the therapeutic use of stem cells, is pulling out of the business. It is ending (or selling, if it can find a buyer) a project that was testing embryonic stem cells as a treatment for people paralysed by injuries to their spinal cords. The reason, it said, is financial. At a time when it is hard to raise new capital, the firm has decided to concentrate on anticancer therapies that, it hopes, are nearer to being commercial propositions than the stem-cell study is.The good news for the field of stem-cell therapy comes from a paper published in this week’s...    
                               AS THE influenza season splutters into life across the northern hemisphere, millions will head to their computers in search of information, advice and remedies. Since 2008 Google has used these inquiries to track influenza-like illnesses (ILIs)—as symptoms not backed up by a definitive viral test are officially known—among its users around the world.  Google Flu Trends  displays whizzy graphs and colourful maps showing the intensity and progress of each seasonal epidemic.This approach is not perfect, though. In order to stay accurate, Google has to tweak its algorithms regularly, to match the incidence of illness in the world. For this, it relies on data provided by America’s Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, and similar institutions in other countries. But different countries have different reporting cultures. Belgium, for example, typically reports five times as many ILIs as its neighbour, the Netherlands (employees’ need for a doctor’s certificate to take more than one day of medical leave is probably to blame), and...    
                               ONE answer to the question, “What ate dinosaurs?” is, obviously, “Other dinosaurs.” Theropod predators like  Tyrannosaurus  and  Allosaurus  loom large in the imagination of every lover of prehistoric monsters, and their animatronic fights with the likes of  Diplodocus  and  Stegosauru s are the stuff of cliché. Science, though, tries to look beyond the obvious, and at this year’s meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Palaeontology, held in Las Vegas, some of the speakers asked whether the top predators of the Mesozoic era really were all dinosaurs. Their conclusion was “no”. Another group of reptiles, until recently neglected, were also important carnivores. And it is a group that is still around today: the crocodiles.That the past role of crocodiles (or, strictly, crocodilians, since they came in many sizes and shapes, not all of which resemble the modern animals) has been underestimated was suggested a few years ago by Paul Sereno. Dr Sereno, a palaeontologist at the University of Chicago, uncovered a crocodile-dominated...    
    THE  Hubble  space telescope, an orbiting observatory launched in 1990 by NASA, America’s space agency, has been one of that agency’s most successful missions since the Apollo moon shots in the 1960s and 1970s. It has produced a string of scientific achievements: confirming that most galaxies have a black hole in the middle; providing a front-row seat for the collision, in 1994, of a comet with the planet Jupiter; and helping to uncover the strange fact that the expansion of the universe seems to be accelerating. But beyond the science, it has also been a public-relations hit. Its beautiful images have introduced a generation to the wonders of astronomy.So in 2002, when the agency considered plans for a successor that would study the universe in infra-red, rather than visible light, would be ready to fly in 2010 and would cost just $2.5 billion, saying “yes” was easy. Nine years later, NASA is regretting that decision. The  James Webb  space telescope (JWST), as the new machine is called, is still in the workshop, and its launch date has been set back repeatedly (2018 is the latest official estimate). Its cost has gone up to $8.8 billion, a figure that, if history is any guide, could rise still further. Which would be embarrassing at the best of times, but with public-spending cuts looming and NASA’s budget flat for the...    
                     You see what?!!            IT SOUNDS like voodoo. But the Rorschach test, in which elements of someone’s personality can be deduced, its proponents claim, by his description of what he sees in a series of inkblots, has been used for 90 years, and is still going strong.The original test was devised by Hermann Rorschach, a Swiss psychiatrist, in 1921. It involved someone (usually a psychologist or psychiatrist) asking someone else to look at ten inkblot images. In each case, the interlocutor inquires of the viewer, “What might this be?”, notes the response and attempts to draw conclusions.The question has always been, of course, how reliable the connection is between the response to the blots (generally, people, animals or objects) and the alleged diagnosis. Over the years, many experiments have been done to test the link. Now Gregory Meyer of the University of Toledo and his colleagues have reviewed the data. Their results, which form the basis of a new manual *  on the topic, suggest the inkblot test does have real power. But Dr Meyer also rejects...    
                               WHAT dinosaurs ate is, of course, a question as interesting and illuminating as what ate dinosaurs (see  article ). In the case of one particular dinosaur,  Microraptor , the matter was addressed in a presentation to the annual meeting of the Society of Vertebrate Palaeontology by Jingmai O’Connor of the Institute of Vertebrate Palaeontology and Palaeoanthropology, in Beijing. Microraptor  (see photograph) is one of many small, feathered dinosaurs found in what is now China that were alive during the Cretaceous period more than 66m years ago. Being feathered, it and its kind were cousins to birds. The actual split between the two groups, though, had happened much earlier, during the Jurassic period (the first known bird is  Archaeopteryx , from 150m years ago), and by the late Cretaceous there were many species of bird around. What Dr O’Connor and her colleagues have found is the remains of one of those birds, of an as-yet-unidentified species, in the stomach...    
                               AT 23:28 Greenwich Mean Time on November 8th an asteroid by the name of 2005-YU55 whizzed within 324,600km (201,700 miles) of Earth: an astronomical hair’s breadth. 2005-YU55, which is 400 metres across, is a regular visitor to the Earth’s neighbourhood, and this approach was its closest for 200 years. But have no fear, there is no risk of collision, at least for the next century or so (forecasting much beyond that is tricky). Instead, astronomers were delighted by the opportunity to peer at the thing. Radars scanned it (the image right is one result) and telescopes tracked its path. The next close encounter with an asteroid is not expected until 2028, when a rock called 2001-WN5 will come nearer still.     
                     We are delighted that you have such good genes            IN BRITAIN, those who live to be 100 years old receive a birthday card from the queen. In the future, centenarians everywhere may also receive a call from a geneticist. If they do, he or she will be seeking a sample of DNA that might, eventually, help to reveal the genetic components of extreme longevity. The more immediate use, however, will be in a competition. For on October 26th the X Prize Foundation, based in Playa Vista, California, unveiled its latest carrot to the world’s scientists.The foundation has already put up prizes in areas as diverse as cleaning up oil spills and landing a robot on the moon. The idea of a genomics X prize is not new. It has been around since 2006. But the latest announcement, in the pages of  Nature Genetics , has a particular goal in mind.The foundation is offering $10m to the first team to sequence the genomes of 100 centenarians. The winners will have to do it accurately, making no more than one mistake per million base pairs (the chemical letters in which genomic information is...    
                               IF YOU think the art of mind-reading is a conjuring trick, think again. Over the past few years, the ability to connect first monkeys and then men to machines in ways that allow brain signals to tell those machines what to do has improved by leaps and bounds. In the latest demonstration of this, just published in the  Public Library of Science , Bin He and his colleagues at the University of Minnesota report that their volunteers can successfully fly a helicopter (admittedly a virtual one, on a computer screen) through a three-dimensional digital sky, merely by thinking about it. Signals from electrodes taped to the scalp of such pilots provide enough information for a computer to work out exactly what the pilot wants to do.That is interesting and useful. Mind-reading of this sort will allow the disabled to lead more normal lives, and the able-bodied to extend their range of possibilities still further. But there is another kind of mind-reading, too: determining, by scanning the brain, what someone is actually thinking about. This sort of mind-reading is less advanced than the machine-...    
                     Born smiling?            THE idea that the human personality is a blank slate, to be written upon only by experience, prevailed for most of the second half of the 20th century. Over the past two decades, however, that notion has been undermined. Studies comparing identical with non-identical twins have helped to establish the heritability of many aspects of behaviour, and examination of DNA has uncovered some of the genes responsible. Recent work on both these fronts suggests that happiness is highly heritable.As any human being knows, many factors govern whether people are happy or unhappy. External circumstances are important: employed people are happier than unemployed ones and better-off people than poor ones. Age has a role, too: the young and the old are happier than the middle-aged. But personality is the single biggest determinant: extroverts are happier than introverts, and confident people happier than anxious ones.That personality, along with intelligence, is at least partly heritable is becoming increasingly clear; so, presumably, the tendency to be happy or miserable is, to...    
                               SOUTH AFRICA is not the only middle-income country which aspires to join the world’s scientific powers (see  article ). Argentina would like to as well. The place is proud of its three Nobel science prizes—the largest haul of any Latin American nation—even if the most recent was awarded in 1984. But many researchers fled in the 1990s, when budgets were slashed. Now the government is trying to attract them back, and to encourage younger talent to consider a scientific career.When Néstor Kirchner, the predecessor and late husband of the current president, Cristina Fernández, took office in 2003, Argentina was spending just 0.41% of its GDP on research and development (R&D). Now, that figure is 0.64%. (Brazil, by comparison, spent 0.95% in 2003 and 1.18% in 2009.) Kirchner raised researchers’ salaries, launched a scheme to repatriate departed scientists and gave tax breaks to software companies. Ms Fernández followed suit by creating a science ministry and putting a biologist, Lino Barañao, in charge of it. She also...    
    CENTURIES before Columbus, Viking adventurers ruled the North Atlantic. They sailed as far as America without the aid of magnetic compasses, which was no mean feat. They were, however, assisted in their travels by another sort of magical device. According to the sagas they had stones which could point to the sun, even when the sky was cloudy.No such sunstone has survived. But Guy Ropars of the University of Rennes, in France, thinks he knows what they were. He and his colleagues have been experimenting with a mineral called Iceland spar. Their results, just published in the  Proceedings of the Royal Society , suggest they are on to something.The passage of sunlight through the air polarises it. That means light from the sky itself points towards the sun, if you have the necessary equipment to detect the polarisation. Dr Ropars has shown that a piece of Iceland spar is sufficient.Iceland spar is a form of calcite that splits light into two beams. If the light is polarised, there is only one way to orient the crystal to produce beams of equal intensity. Find this orientation by looking through the crystal at the sky at a time when you can see the sun, mark the sun’s direction on the crystal, and your mark will always point towards the sun when you match the beams from even a tiny patch of blue in an otherwise overcast sky. Dr Ropars’s experiments suggest...    
                     The KAT is out of the bag            THE idea for the world’s most powerful radio telescope, capable of seeing back nearly to the origins of the universe, has been around for some time. Known as the Square Kilometre Array, or SKA—as that was originally planned to be the total collecting area of its thousands of dish-shaped antennae—it was conceived of by an international group of astronomers in the early 1990s. No construction has yet begun. Indeed, no site has yet been chosen. However, in the vast quietness of the Karoo, a semi-desert in South Africa, a small prototype is already operating and its first images are, by all accounts, remarkable.The Karoo Array Telescope (KAT-7) consists of seven steerable dishes, each 12 metres across. As such, it is already the most powerful array-based telescope in Africa. It is, though, merely a test bed for MeerKAT, a device that will consist of 64 somewhat larger dishes and will be the most powerful instrument in the southern hemisphere as well as one of the three most sensitive in the world.The SKA will dwarf these minnows. It will be 50-100 times more...    
                     Living off the land             Trampling Out the Vintage: César Chávez and the Two Souls of the United Farm Workers.   By Frank Bardacke.  Verso; 836 pages; $54.95 and £35.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk “HE IS trampling out the vintage” is part of a line from “The Battle Hymn of the Republic”. It continues “where the grapes of wrath are stored”. Thus the title of Frank Bardacke’s history deliberately echoes John Steinbeck’s novel, a proletarian classic which tells the story of tenant farmers driven off their fields in Oklahoma and forced to cross the country to seek work in California.But, as Mr Bardacke stresses, a huge demographic difference divides then from now. In the Depression of the 1930s Steinbeck could present his impoverished “Okies” as deserving of government help “because they were true American whites”. It was harder for their...    
                                1Q84.   By Haruki Murakami. Books 1 and 2 translated by Jay Rubin and Book 3 by Philip Gabriel.  Knopf; 944 pages; $30.50. Harvill; £34.99.  Buy from Amazom.com ( Books 1, 2 and 3 ), Amazon.co.uk ( Books 1 and 2 ,  Book 3 )HARUKI MURAKAMI filches from George Orwell’s “Nineteen Eighty-Four” for the title of his new novel, “1Q84”, making a play on  kyu , the Japanese word for nine, by transposing the letter “Q” for the number “9”. Significantly, the action also takes place over the last nine months of 1984. But it would be a mistake to conclude from this that Japan’s magical postmodernist has spent nearly 1,000 pages writing about a dystopian world where couples make love in an ash glade, hardly daring to speak because of the all-listening...    
                     Double vision            “I HAVE all my subjects to hand”, Pierre Bonnard, a French post-impressionist painter, once wrote. “I go to see them. I take notes. Then I go home. And before I start painting I reflect, I dream.” At the turn of the 19th century, the “notes” Bonnard made included snapshots that he took with his flexible hand-held Kodak camera, which had first been introduced in 1888.Unhampered by hefty equipment (the Kodak was held at waist level and had an arrow marked on top to help point the lens) or long exposures, Bonnard and his fellow painters from the Nabi group, Edouard Vuillard and Félix Vallotton, were among the first artists to use the camera to observe fine details, perspectives and light effects too fleeting to see with the naked eye. A painstakingly curated new show juxtaposes 220 mostly unpublished vintage snapshots by seven  fin-de-siècle  artists along with their paintings, prints and drawings in an effort to demonstrate how this new way of seeing inspired and expanded the painters’ creative vision.Henri Rivière, a French printmaker and designer,...    
                     The Argentine dream             Purgatory.  By Tomás Eloy Martínez. Translated by Frank Wynne.  Bloomsbury; 273 pages; $17 and £16.99.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk   An Open Secret.  By Carlos Gamerro. Translated by Ian Barnett.  Pushkin Press; 286 pages; $15 and £10.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk   Open Door.  By Iosi Havilio. Translated by Beth Fowler.  And Other Stories; 213 pages; £10.  Buy from  Amazon.co.uk   7 Ways to Kill a Cat.  By Matías...    
     The RA Collection of Chinese Ceramics: A Collector’s Vision (Three Volumes).   By Maria Antónia Pinto de Matos.  Jorge Welsh Books; 1,204 pages; £900 WHEN the Portuguese began trading with China in the early 1500s, porcelain was one of the luxury goods they carried home in their ships. Only the Chinese knew how to make this delicate, often translucent, material that rings when you tap it. Demand for porcelain made expressly for foreigners spread as far afield as the Netherlands, Germany, Persia, the Ottoman empire, Japan and the young United States.The Chinese manufacturers drew on traditional shapes, but quickly began to branch out, making Western tureens in the form of pigs, cockerels, blue-eyed horned oxheads and bug-eyed crouching crabs, as well as sauceboats shaped as whole multicoloured fish. It was a world apart from the traditional Chinese blue-and-white. The earliest commissions, often with coats of arms, are called the “first orders”.For Portuguese speakers these works have long been an evocation of a seafaring heritage in which many take pride. Now Chinese collectors are beginning to acquire them as homage to the sophistication and commercial acumen of their forebears. For the moment, though, the best collection is still in Brazil. It is the focus of a new three-volume study of 600 outstanding pieces. Among the rarities acquired by this...    
    AUDIENCES expecting a hard-hitting exposé will have the rug pulled out from under them by “J. Edgar”, Clint Eastwood’s biopic about the long-serving founder of the FBI, masterfully played by Leonardo DiCaprio. Film critics have been especially curious about how Mr Eastwood would portray the private life of the original Dirty Harry. Is Hoover shown wearing a dress? (Yes, but…) Does the film portray his rumoured love affair with his aide, Clyde Tolson? (Absolutely, but…)The screenplay, by Oscar-winner Dustin Lance Black, hopscotches across the decades, requiring a sizeable cast. Yet this is an intimate, interior story of a man who merges truth and self-aggrandising fictions. Thus it is immaterial that the FBI’s slight involvement in the Lindbergh kidnapping case becomes the backbone of the memoir that Hoover is dictating in the film, or that Alvin Karpis, a gangster, was, if truth be told, arrested by someone other than Hoover. The memoirist’s habit of stealing credit from others to burnish his crime-busting image has infected the narrative. Mr Eastwood is slyly amused by the energy that America’s top cop puts into seeing his exploits glorified in films, comics and even on cereal packets, until the underlying sadness of it all rises up and becomes the film’s real subject.At heart, “J. Edgar” is a love story between two men: the ferocious bulldog sitting atop his empire of...    
                                Across the Land and the Water: Selected Poems 1964-2001.  By W.G. Sebald, translated by Iain Galbraith.  Hamish Hamilton; 240 pages; £14.99. To be published in America in April by Random House; $25.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk SINCE W.G. Sebald’s sudden death in 2001, the cult of the Britain-based German writer has spread fast. Known for his exquisite prose works that, in their combination of the real with the fictional, push at the limits of what novels can be, he is considered one of the foremost German writers of his generation. He was also a poet.“Across the Land and the Water” brings together a selection of the poems he never published in book form, if at all. Translated by Iain Galbraith, the volume sketches out a life on the move. Stretching over 37 years, the volume includes poems that Mr Galbraith found jotted down in Sebald’s archives on scraps of paper...    
                     Still a player             Back to Work: Why We Need Smart Government for a Strong Economy.  By Bill Clinton.  Knopf; 196 pages; $23.95. Hutchinson; £16.99.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk RECENTLY the American public’s growing criticism of Barack Obama has been accompanied by warmer feelings for the Clintons. More and more Democrats now wonder if they should have chosen Hillary in his place, and it is increasingly common for the president’s lacklustre handling of the economy to be contrasted with the surer leadership and much happier economic times when Bill ruled the White House. Mr Clinton has now written a book full of ideas about how to revive the economy and get America’s unemployed millions back to work—advice that, by drawing further attention to their contrasting styles, Mr Obama may find less helpful than Mr Clinton intends.Mr...    
     Don’t Shoot: One Man, A Street Fellowship, and the End of Violence in Inner-City America.  By David Kennedy.  Bloomsbury; 320 pages; $28 and £12.99.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk IN THE mid-1990s, the national homicide rate in America was around ten per 100,000. The rate for gang members in Boston was 1,539 per 100,000. Boston at the time had more than 60 active gangs; if you happened to be in one, you had a roughly one-in-seven chance of being shot to death within a nine-year period, and even if you avoided a fatal gunshot wound, you were all but guaranteed to receive a non-fatal one at some point.If the violence was extreme, so was the rhetoric. In “Body Count” (1996) William Bennett, John DiIulio and John Walters, who had all worked in domestic policy for President George Bush junior or his father, fretted that America was “home to thickening ranks of juvenile ‘superpredators’— radically impulsive, brutally remorseless youngsters…who murder, assault, rape, rob, burglarise, deal deadly drugs, join gun-toting gangs and create serious communal disorders.”But what if they weren’t monsters? What if they were just kids who were...    
     I Was Born There, I Was Born Here.  By Mourid Barghouti.  Bloomsbury; 216 pages; £14.99. To be published in America in July by Walker & Co; $25.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk CERTAIN images reappear in all recent Palestinian literature. Mangled olive groves, the trees, like their owners, uprooted; cardamom-scented coffee, its fragrance percolating through the Palestinian exile; endless waiting, daily to cross checkpoints, every year to return home.Mourid Barghouti evokes them all in his memoir, “I Was Born There, I Was Born Here”, which continues the story begun in his 2003 work, “I Saw Ramallah”. Driving to Jericho, he passes fields of olive trees, “uprooted and thrown over under the open sky like dishonoured corpses”, the fields around them an “open collective grave”. Crossing the border from Jordan, “at the threshold of Palestine”, he must wait for hours at checkpoints where “sweat oozes with sticky insistence” and the air is fried. These images lose none of their poignancy or power in this familiarity. Instead they distil the Palestinian experience of exile into something real.Much of the book concentrates on Mr...    
                                Ghosts of Afghanistan: The Haunted Battleground.  By Jonathan Steele.  Counterpoint; 437 pages; $26. Portobello; £25.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk ON TAKING office in 2009, President Barack Obama found a longstanding request from the army on his desk, asking for more troops for the war in Afghanistan. He soon acceded, though not in full. According to Bob Woodward’s book, “Obama’s Wars”, which came out in 2010, the late Richard Holbrooke, Mr Obama’s envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, reminded his boss that Lyndon Johnson had faced similar demands during the Vietnam war. “Ghosts”, whispered Mr Obama. They haunt him still, as he seeks to bring most American troops home before 2015, without leaving Afghanistan prey to a new extremist Taliban regime or an intensification of its three-decade-long civil war.“Ghosts of Afghanistan” is a good title for this fine modern...    
                     A story with legs            FRENCH film-makers are good at turning out silly comedies that foreigners find unwatchable. They have a better export record with highbrow, low-plot movies, set in chic apartments with parquet floors, that feel moodily French. Just occasionally, however, they come up with a comic gem. “Intouchables”, directed by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano, is one of those cleverly pitched, well-scripted, feel-good comic films typically crafted in Hollywood; it is a delight to see that the French can sometimes pull them off too. With more than 4m tickets sold since it opened earlier this month, the film is set to be a boxoffice smash.Based on a true story, it follows the improbable relationship between Philippe, a quadriplegic aristocrat (François Cluzet), and Driss (Omar Sy), a gregarious Senegal-born youth from the  banlieues , the grim housing estates that ring Paris. On his release from prison, Driss is hired by Philippe in a moment of recklessness as a live-in help at his Paris mansion. Philippe is warned that  banlieue ...    
                                The Ideal Man: The Tragedy of Jim Thompson and the American Way of War.  By Joshua Kurlantzick.  Wiley; 253 pages; $25.95 and £17.99.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk HE WAS the Jay Gatsby of Bangkok: rich, charming, glamorous and endlessly hospitable, but with something mysterious in his background. The mystery only deepened with his death. On Easter Sunday in 1967 Jim Thompson left the cottage where he was on holiday in the Cameron Highlands in Malaysia, apparently for an afternoon walk. He vanished. Despite a huge conventional search operation (followed by more exotic efforts involving psychics and a Gurkha parachuted into Cambodia), no trace was ever found of him. A library’s-worth of conspiracy theories has never explained his disappearance.The secret in Thompson’s background—and source of many of the conspiracy theories—was of the spooky variety. He was...    
     The Price of Civilisation: Reawakening American Virtue and Prosperity.  By Jeffrey Sachs.  Random House; 336 pages; $27. Published in Britain as “The Price of Civilisation: Economics and Ethics after the Fall”. Bodley Head; £20.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk JEFFREY SACHS is an American economist best known for his prescriptions for economically diseased poor countries. The country he now considers most in need of his diagnostic gifts is his own. “Something has gone terribly wrong in the US economy, politics, and society in general,” Mr Sachs writes in “The Price of Civilisation”. American politicians are the stooges of corporations, he says. And American voters have been tranquillised into obesity by saturation advertising.Such sentiments would appear unremarkable if spouted by an Occupy Wall Street protester. But Mr Sachs, a professor at Columbia University, is a respected, mainstream macroeconomist. Mr Sachs catalogues the familiar problems that beset the American economy: unemployment stuck at 9%, an exploding budget deficit, America ceding technological leadership to China, poorly educated American children.But this is...    
                     From Walmart to wall art            THE Ozarks are America’s least appreciated mountain range. Lacking the majesty of the Rockies, the breadth of the Appalachians or the mournful grandeur of the Cascades, there they sit, somewhere in the middle of the country, south of the Midwest, north of the south, east of the mountainous west. They have long drawn fishermen and hikers; until now, however, art fanciers have had little reason to visit.That changes with the opening of the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art on November 11th. With 120 acres (48.6 hectares) of forests and gardens and long hiking trails connecting it with downtown Bentonville, Crystal Bridges is not just in but also of the Ozarks. Its patron, Alice Walton, is the scion of the Ozarks’ first family: her father, Sam Walton, opened a discount store called Wal-Mart in nearby Rogers, Arkansas, in 1962. Today Walmart (which officially went hyphenless in 2008) is America’s largest private employer. The Walton Family Foundation gave the museum a $1.2 billion endowment and Ms Walton and the museum have been on something of a...    
                                George F. Kennan: An American Life.  By John Lewis Gaddis.  Penguin Press; 784 pages; $39.95 and £30.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk THREE decades ago George Kennan— former American ambassador to Moscow, multilingual diplomat and conceptualiser of “containment”, the heart of his country’s foreign policy towards the Soviet Union—agreed to allow an American cold-war historian, John Lewis Gaddis, to serve as his biographer. Kennan had decamped from public service to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton more than 20 years earlier and was already 78 years old. When he began giving Mr Gaddis interviews and stacks of personal papers in 1981, their understanding was that the biography would appear in the presumably not-too-distant future after the elder man’s passing.Decades of interviews later, Mr Gaddis, who is now 70, had become accustomed to his students “...    
     Change or Decay: Russia’s Dilemma and the West’s Response.  By Lilia Shevtsova and Andrew Wood.  Brookings Institute Press; 260 pages; $49.95.  Buy  here THIS book, says Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, in a foreword, “is different, and deserves to make an impact”. The first is certainly true. It takes the form of a lengthy series of exchanges between two old friends: Lilia Shevtsova, a Russian who works for America’s Carnegie Endowment in Moscow, and Sir Andrew Wood, a former British ambassador there. Their subject is the relationship between Russia and the West, still neurotic and plagued with misunderstandings 20 years after the Soviet collapse. Why do so many Russians feel threatened, betrayed and disappointed by the West? Some there see it as a flawed paradigm of human rights, free elections and the rule of law. Others find it a self-righteous bully.Ms Shevtsova politely bemoans a “failure of imagination” in the West. Too comfortable with the old bipolar world, it splurged cash when it should have imposed conditions, was stingy when it should have been generous and naive when it should have been tough. Tolerance for Boris Yeltsin’s faults opened the way for the rigged elections and crony capitalism of Vladimir Putin’s ex-KGB regime...    
    .ec-article-content {    padding-top: 450px; position: relative;}       .ec-gallery-temp {position: absolute; top:5px; width: 595px;}          SCIENTIST, engineer, musician and great artist, Leonardo da Vinci is the archetypal Renaissance man. This undisputed genius, who lived to be 67, was also one of history’s most accomplished underachievers. He started many projects he did not finish; he accepted commissions he never began; his many planned treatises remained just notes. Only 18 of his paintings survive. Half of them are included in a show that opened on November 9th at London’s National Gallery, making this the most important da Vinci display ever.The artist was born near Florence in 1452 and went to Milan at the age of 30. Luke Syson, the show’s curator, has come to believe that the freedom da Vinci enjoyed there as court painter to Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, was the key that unlocked his genius.Mr Syson’s contention that Leonardo’s great breakthrough came in Milan and not later in Florence, as has generally been accepted until now, has captivated curators, collectors and museum directors who have been generous in loaning works to the show; from the Vatican, Prague, Cracow, Paris and the Royal Collection.All the pictures on show were painted during da Vinci’s 18 years in Milan. Never has it been possible to see so many of da Vinci’s paintings together....    
                     With the black dog             Hemingway’s Boat: Everything He Loved in Life, and Lost, 1934-1961.  By Paul Hendrickson.  Knopf; 544 pages; $30. To be published in Britain in January by Bodley Head; £20.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk PAUL HENDRICKSON’S bibliography lists 76 biographical works about Ernest Hemingway, nine of them by wives, siblings and children, followed by memoirists, respected biographers and hangers on, pretenders and doctoral students. “Scholarly forests have been clear-cut in the service of explaining his so-called fetishes,” he writes. That does not mean there is nothing new to say on the subject, but Mr Hendrickson, a former journalist and American author of non-fiction, intends to tell it differently: “I want it to be less of a biography than an interpretation, an evocation, with other lives streaming in.” Having...    
                     Ear and now             Van Gogh: The Life.  By Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith.  Random House; 953 pages; $40. Profile; £30.  Buy from  Amazon.com ,  Amazon.co.uk VINCENT VAN GOGH seemed made for a bittersweet Hollywood biopic. The dazzling colours and dashing brushstrokes of his sunflowers, cornfields and cypress trees are among the most familiar and loved works in the history of art, fetching record-breaking sums in auction rooms. The inevitable biopic was called “Lust for Life”. But as an enormous and engrossing new biography shows, van Gogh’s lust for conflict was strongest of all.The book describes a lonely, bad- tempered alcoholic, a syphilitic who liked to bite the hands that fed him. It in no way devalues the quality of the painting, of course, but this portrait by Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith, two prolific authors who seem...    
                               A SCHOOLBOY once asked George Daniels what he had at the end of the chain that led to his pocket. A silly question, really. But it was worth asking, because what Mr Daniels pulled out, carefully, was what he called his Space Traveller’s Watch. It gave mean solar time, mean sidereal time, equation of time, and could chart the phases of the moon. Mr Daniels liked to say it would be useful for trips to Mars. He had surmised almost the same when, at five or six, he had first prised open with a fairly blunt breadknife the back of an old watch he had found at home, and seen “the centre of the universe” inside.He had never imagined then that he would make the universe by hand. But he did. Every component of his Space Traveller’s Watch—as of the 36 other watches he made, each unique, over his 42 working years—was produced from scratch. He made the screws, the springs and the levers, the pallets and gears, the hands and the plain, often numberless dials. He also made the tools that made them, except for the lathes and turning engines. No one else had ever learned the dozens of necessary skills. But after years of teaching...    
                               TO SAY that Joe Frazier had a left hook was like saying the Tomcat jet fighter is an aeroplane. This one was devastating. You knew it was there, but he kept it hidden. For most of a fight he would press in, head down like a bull charging, fists close to the chest. He was short for a heavyweight, five feet eleven, and made himself look shorter, hunching his shoulders and punching close with his stumpy, jabbing arms. He didn’t dance around, but worked away at it, bobbing and weaving relentlessly, throwing away perhaps two punches for every one he landed. His style was to keep aggressively on, wear a man down, get him winded. Then—boom!—the dazzling left hook that sent his opponent sprawling.His craft had been honed for years. First on the heavy bag he’d made himself that hung from the oak tree in the yard of the family shack in Beaufort, South Carolina: just an old burlap bag stuffed with rags and corn cobs, Spanish moss and rocks. Anything that could take a punch. His mamma whupped him with a braided vine and his daddy whupped him with a belt when he deserved it, and then he’d pummel that bag. His uncle had told...    
                               WHEN Philip Gould was fighting oesophageal cancer in the last three years of his life, he found different strategies to deal with it. One was to talk to other people, discussing how they coped with the pain, the fear and the night terrors. Another was to write about it in the  Times , describing with searing frankness his morphine-induced hallucinations and the choking tubes in his throat. Another was to draw up a grid on which he recorded every pill he took and every session of chemotherapy. He called the cancer “Adolf”, which made him a thin, grinning, untidy Churchill. A friend once asked him how his latest scan was looking. “OK”, he replied, adding, as only an obsessive pollster could, “but all within the margin of error.”Each of these tactics he had used before, but for a totally different purpose: to bring the Labour Party back to power in Britain after years in the post-war wilderness. In 1985 he started to talk to ordinary people about politics, discovering that many thought of Labour as “a shiver of fear in the night”, a party of the shadows; and he kept checking the pulse of the...    
                               TO BE a porter at Blackler’s department store in Liverpool was not the best job in the world. Trolleys and boxes, down in the basement, morning to night. You had to be fit to stand it. By the 1970s the store had seen better days, too. But the staff were a good bunch, always ready for a joke and a quip over the fortunes of Liverpool (Red) or Everton (Blue). And Bill Smith, who lived so close to (Blue) Goodison Park that he could hear the cheers when his team scored, was as witty as the rest.He wasn’t like the rest, though. He walked the six miles to work and back, rain or shine, refusing the bus even when it stopped for him. And although he had been a porter all his working life, which had started at 15, and though he was a Liverpudlian born and bred, after 1971 he spent his weekends elsewhere. He would catch the train north, then take a bus—for he had no car—and somehow make his way towards the wide wilderness where the factory towns ran out and the fells began. The mountains, rocks and waters of the Lake District or the Bowland Fells became his home. And there, donning a skimpy vest and shorts that hardly seemed...    
                               THE golden beaches at St Augustine in Florida, America’s oldest city, stretch for 40 miles along the Atlantic, sloping gently into the blue, lazy surf. They seem the last possible place for a battle. But in the summer of 1964 the waves were full of Klansmen with wooden stakes and the beach beside the pier heaving with helmeted police, as a line of blacks in bathing gear tried to desegregate with a “wade-in” the warm, whites-only water.Head of the Negro column, tall, lean, proud, unable to swim but not caring, flinging himself into the ocean as he flung himself at everything else, was Fred Shuttlesworth. He was a Baptist pastor from Birmingham, Alabama, loud with a country preacher’s whooping and singing as the Spirit took hold of him, and fresh from turning that hard-coal, hard-heart city, the very cradle of segregation, into a model of change. He’d led hundreds of blacks to ride at the front of the buses, sit-in at segregated lunch counters, march through the streets, until city officials at last opened up the amenities to people of every race. When his NAACP chapter in Birmingham had been outlawed in 1956, he...    
                               THE house at 963 Calle Neptuno, in the centre of Havana, was small, but Laura Pollán kept it beautifully. The grey floor-tiles with their snowflake motif were always swept clean, even though her fluffy mongrel terrier shed his long hair everywhere, and though the door was kept open to get some air in from the bike-filled, rowdy, dusty street. In the front living room she had cane chairs with heart-shaped backs, and triangles of lace decorated the shelves. Outside, the tiny back yard was a jungle of pot plants and climbers, with neatly folded washing hung against the ochre walls. And the tower of the Iglesia del Carmen watched over it all.But her house was also a cell for liberty. The living-room walls were hung with lists of the names of political prisoners, their photos, and a huge chart that showed them bursting from their chains when her group notched up a success. Prisoners’ wives and daughters crowded there for her monthly Literary Teas. She once got 72 women in, under the slowly turning ceiling fan, and put up 25 overnight. They came from all over Cuba: Pinar del Rio, Santa Clara, Las Tunas, Manzanillo (in...    
                               NOW that digital devices are fashion items, it is easy to forget what really accounts for their near-magical properties. Without the operating systems which tell their different physical bits what to do, and without the languages in which these commands are couched, the latest iSomething would be a pretty but empty receptacle. The gizmos of the digital age owe a part of their numeric souls to Dennis Ritchie and John McCarthy.As was normal in the unformed days of computer science in the 1950s and 1960s, both men came to the discipline through maths. They were rather good with numbers. As a teenager Mr McCarthy taught himself calculus from textbooks found at the California Institute of Technology in balmy Pasadena, where his family had moved to from Boston because of his delicate health. Mr Ritchie was not quite as precocious. He breezed through school in New Jersey, of course, and went on to Harvard to study physics. After receiving a bachelor’s degree, however, he decided, with typical modesty, that he was “not smart enough to be a physicist”.When Mr McCarthy and Mr Ritchie first developed an urge to talk to machines, people still...    
                               AS THE rebel insurgency flowed and ebbed across Libya this year, it passed through most of the staging posts in Muammar Qaddafi’s life. Sirte, where he was born in a Bedouin tent in the sand-wastes and died amid the crackle of sniper fire; Misrata, where he went to a private tutor to learn history; Benghazi, where at military college he began to plot revolution; and Tripoli, where in the sprawling half-bombed barracks at Bab el-Aziziya he pitched his tent again, the Brother-Leader, insisting he would never leave until he had fired the last bullet he possessed.When death overtook him, he had ruled Libya for 42 years. The handsome, magnetic army captain who had overthrown King Idris in 1969 had become a robed buffoon, with a surgically smoothed face, a mop of dyed black hair and, until she scuttled home, a blonde Ukrainian nurse on his arm. Yet he was no less cunning. Behind the designer shades his eyes were those of a fox. By sheer imposition of the cult of himself, he had held his tribally fractious country together.He ruled unsparingly. In his Libya, dissent was punishable by death. A private press was forbidden...    
                               IN MANY ways it seems odd that Wangari Maathai’s life should have been so closely associated with struggle. Success appeared to come almost effortlessly to her, even though her origins were humble. She was born to a Kikuyu family of peasant farmers in Ihithe, a small village in the central highlands of Kenya, which was then a British colony. Though it was far from common in the 1940s for girls like her to receive an education, Wangari was sent to primary school—at her brother’s suggestion—at the age of eight. From then on accomplishments seemed to drop into her lap. She got to secondary school, graduated top of her class and went on to earn a degree in biology in Kansas, an MSc in Pittsburgh and, after studying in Germany, a PhD on gonads in bovines in Nairobi. That made her the first woman in east Africa to hold a doctorate. Jobs followed, in academic and civic positions which no black woman had filled before, and on their heels came award after award, none grander than the 2004 Nobel peace prize.In truth, these successes were not effortlessly achieved. Dr Maathai laboured hard all her life, never taking...    
                               FOR some decades before Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi appeared, Indian cricket was often a feudal affair. Royals captained the teams, picking the players out of a sense of sheer entitlement; they installed themselves prominently in the batting order; and after the match the photographs were hung in some trophy room or antechamber of the palace of the Maharajah of X or the Prince of Y, among the wild ox heads and tiger skins.All the odder, then, that the man who shook up the national game, encouraged players from all regions and classes, made cricket an unmissable part of the lives of teeming, boisterous, firecracker-throwing city crowds, was a prince himself. He was the ninth (and last) Nawab of Pataudi, son of the eighth nawab and the Begum of Bhopal, and a Test cricketer, son of a Test cricketer: the pedigree was as impeccable as the upbringing was lavish, in the manner of the Mughal kings. As captain of India, indulging his love of pranks, he once convinced a team member that Kolkata’s white-marble Victoria Memorial was another of his palaces.His schools included Lockers Park Prep in Hertfordshire, Winchester (...    
                               AMONG the episodes in his life that didn’t last, that were over almost before they began, including a spell in the army and a try at marriage, Michael Hart was a street musician in San Francisco. He made no money at it, but then he never bought into the money system much—garage-sale T-shirts, canned beans for supper, were his sort of thing. He gave the music away for nothing because he believed it should be as freely available as the air you breathed, or as the wild blackberries and raspberries he used to gorge on, growing up, in the woods near Tacoma in Washington state. All good things should be abundant, and they should be free.He came to apply that principle to books, too. Everyone should have access to the great works of the world, whether heavy (Shakespeare, “Moby-Dick”,  pi  to 1m places), or light (Peter Pan, Sherlock Holmes, the “Kama Sutra”). Everyone should have a free library of their own, the whole Library of Congress if they wanted, or some esoteric little subset; he liked Romanian poetry himself, and Herman Hesse’s “Siddhartha”. The joy of e-books, which he invented, was that...    
                               WHEN he was 52, with a hand that still trembled, Vann Nath produced a painting of a young man lying under a blossoming tree. He was playing a pipe while, in the background, cattle grazed by green palms in some bucolic corner of Cambodia. It was meant to be a self-portrait, he said, a beautiful memory from his childhood. He wanted only to paint idyllic landscapes now, in the style of temple murals or the French Impressionists who had first inspired him to take up art.That was because, in 1978-79, he had been made to paint quite different pictures. In those months he was interned in S-21 prison, a former French  lycée  in Phnom Penh which had been converted into a torture-compound for alleged enemies of the Khmer Rouge regime. Perhaps 14,000 people were sent to S-21 for a daily routine of electrocution, water-boarding and flagellation before being carted off for execution—a shovel or spade to the head—at the nearby “killing fields”. Mr Vann Nath was one of only six or seven prisoners to make it out alive.He never expected to. Like almost all the others, he had no idea why he had been sent...    
                               WHEN Ray Anderson first encountered the concept at an international conference, it took his breath away. It was so smart, so right. It was flexible, practical, beautiful, and made perfect sense. He knew right then that modular soft-surfaced floor coverings (carpet tiles, in other words), could change the world.Others thought he was round the bend. When he decided to give up his job at Milliken Carpet in LaGrange, Georgia to set up a 15-person carpet company, and was clearing out his desk that February of 1973, two colleagues looked in. “We don’t think you can do this,” they told him. He replied, in his languid, ever-courteous southern lilt, “The hell you say.” Fifteen years later his company, renamed Interface, was the biggest carpet-tile maker on the planet.This also made Mr Anderson a considerable plunderer of the earth. He never thought about that at first. To his mind he was no more a thief of Nature than when, a country boy during the Depression, he had hooked 20-pound channel catfish, now long gone, out of the Chattahoochee River. His business complied with government regulations. His product, too, was much...    
                               UNTIL 2009, if you had wandered past 75 Thompson Street in SoHo, in New York City, you might have glimpsed a face at an upstairs window. It was an aristocratic face, with a shock of white hair, and it surmounted—according to the season—a chunky-knit sweater or a white Byronic shirt. This was the first clue that out of sight, level with the window sill, was a writing desk, and that at this desk, on sheets of unruled paper in blue felt-tip pen, Samuel Menashe was writing poems.Inklings sans ink/ Cling to the dry/ Point of the pen/ Whose stem I mouth/ Not knowing when/ The truth will outThey were very short poems. Many were only four lines long. He began with more, but then worked to make them as concise as possible. They were honed down to the essence, sculpted like stones. He left them on scraps of paper all over the apartment.A flock of little boats/ Tethered to the shore/ Drifts in still water/ Prows dip, nibblingOthers were not so good. And some, he thought, were no more than sighs, like the one he once wrote on the sand of an Irish beach for the tide to take away.Pity us/ Beside the sea/ On the sands/ So...    
                               THE stately descent of an eyelid; the five-minute burning glance; tears frozen on a heroine’s cheek; the moustachioed hero standing to pained attention; the slowly circling dance of attendants in and out of curtains to some interminable tune. That was old Bollywood, before Shammi Kapoor came along. He could do old-style too, keeping chastely still and delivering his laments and what not, because it ran in the family’s famous blood. But in 1957, frustration boiling up inside him after 19 films which had made him precisely a nobody, he took a different tack; shaved off the pencil moustache; cropped his long hair into a Presley duck-tail, tossed his head sideways, spun round, shook his hips, and exploded on to the Hindi film scene.The film was “Tumsa Nahin Dekha” (“Never Seen Anyone Like You”). And India never had. Suddenly, stasis and convention were thrown out of the window. On screen at least, in packed and humid cinemas across the country, everything changed. Shammiji never came that much closer to his heroines, but he seethed with Westernised sex appeal. He was a playboy and a clown, a ceaseless ragger...    
                               SLOWLY, though his heart was pounding like a runner’s, Roman Opalka approached the canvas. He had painted it completely black. The date, though he set no store by dates, was 1965. Clenched in his left hand was a pot of white acrylic paint; held tightly in his right was a No. 0 brush, the smallest standard size. He dipped the fine tip into the paint and then, very gently, as if in slow motion, raised his arm. His hand was trembling. Carefully he painted the figure 1 at the top left-hand corner of the canvas. At the same time he whispered, in his native Polish,  jeden , one. The moment was so charged with emotion that he thought he might collapse. Instead, he had begun.He had thought about this for years, wondering how he might visualise time. He did not mean the time of clocks or calendars or hour-glasses; those were merely instruments of convenience for fixing points at which to have coffee, or feed the cat. That was time you could even reverse, by winding back the clock or tipping the hourglass over. He meant the irreversible continuum of time that flowed through him, the pulse of his life...    
                               CONVIVIAL, and not averse to a drink, Nancy Wake could often be found cheering up a cocktail bar. In the late 1940s, and again towards the end of her life, it might have been the American Bar of the Stafford Hotel, just across the road from  The Economist ’s offices in London. In 1940, when she was living as a newlywed in Vichy France, it could have been another American Bar, this one in the Hôtel du Louvre et de la Paix in Marseilles. It was a chance encounter here with an English officer, interned by the French authorities but that day on parole, which led to her membership of the resistance, and then to her role as an agent of the British Special Operations Executive in occupied France. Of the 39 SOE women infiltrated into France, 11 of whom would die in concentration camps, she was perhaps the most redoubtable.From her earliest days, Miss Wake combined opposing qualities. She was disciplined, but at the same time a free spirit. In Sydney, to which her large family had moved after leaving her birthplace in New Zealand, she twice ran away from home. As soon as she could, she made...    
                               LIKE most mayors, Ghulam Haider Hamidi had big dreams for his city. He imagined wide, paved roads where the traffic flowed freely. He hoped for first-class schools with computers, and housing developments where the rich would flock to live. Tidy, well-regulated shops would line the streets, with trees and parks as green oases between them. By night the whole place would blaze with lights. And this city would be spotless, with fresh-laid sewage pipes, fresh-dug drains, and an army of workers to deep-clean the streets on a regular basis. Immaculate himself, in designer glasses and pure white  perahan tunban  topped with a perfectly matching brown wool jacket and scarf, the mayor wanted nothing less for the town he adored.But this was Kandahar City, a sprawling desert entrepot of 800,000 people in the middle of a war, in southern Afghanistan. Its essence was dust, fumes, bicycles, raw sewage, horns, rickshaws, jerry-built apartments, teeming bazaars; and now thundering NATO convoys, blaring police trucks, the sudden whump of a bomb blast, and groups of grim turbaned men who were...    
                               ASTONISHMENT, even disgust, often greeted Lucian Freud’s paintings when they first appeared. In “Benefits Supervisor Sleeping” a mountainous friend lay snoozing on a sofa, one blubbery breast cupped in a hand, revelling in rolls of fat like a beached whale. In “Naked Man with Rat” a surprised fellow fondled a rodent perilously near his engorged genitalia. Female nudes—sometimes the artist’s own grown-up daughters—lay rudely splayed, or tangled up in sheets. Bare flesh, vulnerable, cushiony, shiny, lumpish pink-white thickly shadowed in grey and blue, was everywhere. The best painter in the world, as he was often said to be, seemed intent on rubbing the world’s nose in human ugliness. His candour was shocking.What viewers did not always realise was that Mr Freud wanted to shock himself. Each portrait was a risk. Every time he approached a sitter—thrusting a piece of torn sheet into his belt as an apron, scraping a clean space on his heavily encrusted palette, knocking the dried paint off the tube-ends in a swipe across the wall—he felt, he said, like a diver on the edge of the board. He had no idea what would happen. As he loaded...    
    ALL her life, Betty Ford loved to dance. At ten she was gliding round to the waltz and the foxtrot at social-dancing classes in Grand Rapids, Michigan. As a young woman, she was taught by Martha Graham and danced in her troupe at Carnegie Hall. (Later she persuaded her husband, Gerald R., to give Martha a medal; if you kept on at a man long enough, he would agree to anything.) In the White House she tried out disco steps, and shimmied to the Bump at dinner-dances. But if you tried to teach her an arabesque or a  jetée , she turned into the worst ballet dancer who ever came down the road. She couldn’t bear to be constrained like that. She was, as she put it once, a booby who only wanted to soar.      Of course, she could be proper too. In her brief stint as First Lady, from August 1974 to January 1977, she was always immaculately turned out. She wore white gloves (“these mitts”) whenever she had to do so. But, much as she adored clothes—the room-long rack at her house in Virginia had fallen off the wall, she had so many—all the ladylike public behaviour could be a bit of a strain. So too could the split-second scheduling, when she liked to linger in bed in the mornings till 9.30 or so, putting on her makeup in her own good time. It sometimes happened that she had to greet the public from the balcony with her nightgown tucked up under her coat. “Hi, Betty!” they...    
    The worldwide steel and metals industry was the subject of the biggest number of anti-dumping investigations initiated by members of the World Trade Organisation last year. A report by Rowe & Maw, a corporate-law firm, records 95 cases involving steel and metals—more than a third of the year’s total. Of these cases, 37 were started by America, in an attempt to protect its ailing steel industry from foreign competition. The steel business has entered a period of restructuring amid a wave of consolidation by the world’s biggest producers. Steel accounted for 80% of America’s anti-dumping investigations in 2000, and American companies are clamouring for even more cases this year. In relative terms, the paper and wood industries showed the biggest drop in anti-dumping activity over the past year: 25 cases were begun in 1999, but just eight got going in 2000. Investigations involving textiles and related products also fell sharply, from 37 to 16.    
    In February, the European Union’s current account jumped into surplus for the first time in five months; the 12-month deficit shrank by nearly 10% compared with January. Hurt by weak data from purchasing managers, the euro shed 0.9% against the American dollar. But the greenback fell by 3.0% against the Australian dollar. In trade-weighted terms, the yen rose by 0.2%.    
    The Nasdaq Composite index rose by 7.8%, boosted by an unexpected first-quarter rebound in the American economy. Tokyo reached its highest level of the year after opinion polls showed firm support for Japan’s new prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi.    
    Growth rates of both broad- and narrow-money supply in Australia continued to rise in March, to 14.1% and 7.5%, respectively. Danish money supply contracted again in March.    
    Quarterly forecasts from J.P. Morgan Chase suggest that the euro will strengthen a little against the American dollar over the next quarter, and then stay at the same level into next spring. The currency has weakened a little over the past three months. The exchange rates for sterling and Swiss francs are also expected to remain broadly stable over the next year. The Swedish krona is expected to appreciate in the next three months and to hit still loftier highs by April 2002. The yen is expected to weaken against the dollar, before regaining a little ground by next April. On an opposite course, the Brazilian  real  will strengthen a little this summer, before softening over the following nine months. The Mexican peso is predicted to experience a 10% fall against the dollar over the next year.    
    Interest rates eased in many euro area markets. Britain’s broad-money growth slowed to 8.4% in the 12 months to March, down from a revised 9.4% in February; Canadian broad-money growth slowed for the third month running, to 5.6%.    
    The visible-trade deficit in the euro area, which now includes Greece, narrowed to $9.7 billion in the year to February. In the same period Britain’s visible-trade deficit shrank to $43.3 billion, and Italy’s trade surplus remained at $1.6 billion. The dollar fell by 1.7% in trade-weighted terms, and the euro gained 1.8%.    
    Further weakness in high-tech and telecom shares, as well as concerns about corporate profits, pushed the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 down by 0.8% and 1.1% respectively. Political uncertainty in Japan made investors cautious, but the Nikkei still gained 1.4%.    
    Tax wedges measure the share of labour costs attributable to income taxes and social-security contributions less cash benefits. In the past three years, they have fallen in most OECD countries. The biggest declines have occurred in Ireland and Australia, where the wedge for a one-earner family with two children fell from 14.5% to 7.7%. The Czech Republic also trimmed its wedge substantially from 31.2% to 24.8%. However, Japan and South Korea have moved in the opposite direction as their governments have tried to spend their way out of economic crises. The tax wedge has risen in both countries by about a third.    
    In a surprise move between scheduled meetings, America’s Federal Reserve cut the federal-funds rate by 50 basis points to 4.5%. It was the fourth cut this year and brought its target for interest rates to the lowest level for 6 1/2 years.    
    America’s trade deficit fell to $33.4 billion in February, slightly reducing the deficit for the latest 12 months. In the year to February, Canada’s trade surplus rose to $39.3 billion. Italy’s current-account deficit narrowed to $5.8 billion in the 12 months to January. The trade-weighted value of the dollar increased by 0.6%, and the yen’s rose by 2.3% over the week.    
    On April 18th, the Dow Jones rose by 3.9% and the Nasdaq Composite surged by 8.1%. Both reached their highest levels for five weeks after the cut in American interest rates. The Nikkei 225 had already closed up 4.4% on the day at a three-week high.    
    Prices of American Treasury bonds fell on April 10th, as the stockmarket rally lured investors away from fixed-income securities. The 12-month growth in Japan’s broad money supply fell to 2.6% in March.    
    In most stockmarkets, the ten biggest companies account for a significant slice of total market capitalisation. In both Finland and Switzerland, their share is over 80%. In Finland, a single company, Nokia, which makes mobile phones, weighs in at 66% of the total. Besides Finland, only in Switzerland and the Netherlands does one company account for at least 20% of the stockmarket. Bigger markets tend to be less concentrated: America’s biggest company, General Electric, makes up only 2.7% of its stockmarket. Concentration has declined in several countries as the value of telecoms companies, often the biggest in a market, has fallen. A year ago, five countries in our chart had a top-ten share of over 60%. Now only three do.    
    The euro fell by 1.4% against the dollar. In trade-weighted terms the euro lost 1.5%, while the yen rose by 1.0%. The Australian dollar strengthened by 2.2% from the record low against the greenback that it had reached on April 3rd. The Austrian trade deficit widened to $4.6 billion in the 12 months to January.    
    Stockmarkets rebounded, as investors sought bargains in the belief that markets had been oversold. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by 6.2%, closing above the 10,000 level and only 13.8% off its record high. The Nasdaq Composite index gained 13.0%.    
    Roughly 60 countries, including the European Union’s 15 members and the Gulf Co-operation Council’s six members, have mechanisms for restricting trade with the rest of the world. That conclusion comes from the annual report of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) on obstacles to American exports. (The report does not analyse America’s own, elaborate restrictions.) Of most relevance to countries besides America are anti-competitive practices. The bad news on this front is that Hungary, Peru and Romania have attracted the USTR’s attention for their protectionist policies in telephone services, fuel and products previously controlled by state monopolies. On the good side, Norway has reformed its monopsonistic system of buying pharmaceuticals for hospitals. Another negative is in the growing field of electronic commerce; the USTR finds that 52 countries now hamper trade on the Internet, up from 46 last year. Export subsidies could be the next area in which progress is made; most members of the World Trade Organisation want to trim them, especially for farm products.    
    Broad-money growth was unchanged in the euro area in the year to February, but narrow-money growth picked up slightly. Money-supply growth in Denmark was again negative. Australia cut its interest rates by half a percentage point.    
    Australia had its biggest trade surplus for nearly four years in February, cutting the 12-month total deficit to $3.6 billion. The trade-weighted Australian dollar appreciated by 0.6% on April 4th after the Reserve Bank’s half-point cut in official interest rates boosted investor confidence. In trade-weighted terms, the yen and sterling fell during the week by 3.2% and 0.9%, respectively.    
    It was another gloomy week for most stockmarkets. The Nasdaq lost 6.0% on April 3rd, after more high-tech companies issued profit warnings. It finished the week down by 11.6%, to its lowest level since October 1998. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 2.8%.    
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Baltic banks                              Rubric:                                           A bust bank in Lithuania sparks worries in Latvia                              Main image:                                           20111126_FNP005_0.jpg                                                THOSE who watch the murkier overlaps between power and money in eastern Europe have long worried quietly about Lithuania’s Snoras Bankas, part of a business empire that includes the country’s leading daily paper. A government decision on November 16th to nationalise the bank, and the issuing on November 23rd of arrest warrants for two of its former shareholders, Vladimir Antonov and Raimondas Baranauskas, on charges including embezzlement and forgery, add weight to those worries. (They deny wrongdoing and are threatening legal action.)  The rumpus has rippled. Mr Antonov, through another company, owns a British football club, Portsmouth. It says it is unaffected. But the effect was dramatic in Latvia, where regulators closed a Snoras subsidiary, Krajbanka, the country’s sixth-biggest deposit-taker, saying ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The economy                              Rubric:                                           The growing troubles in the euro zone mean Britain is set for another recession                              Main image:                                           20111126_BRD001_0.jpg                                                PREPARE for some bad news. The prime minister, David Cameron, told an audience of business leaders on November 21st that shrinking the budget deficit was “proving harder than anyone envisaged.” His comments laid the ground for the chancellor, George Osborne, who makes his autumn statement on the economy and public finances on November 29th. The chancellor’s message is likely to be grim: a downgrade to official growth forecasts for next year and beyond seems certain. The coalition government’s hopes of eliminating the “structural” part of the deficit (the bit that cannot be blamed on temporary slack in the economy) and of capping public debt by the end of the current parliament are in serious doubt.  Bond markets are likely to be forgiving, given the scale of troubles elsewhere. ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The euro                              Rubric:                                           The crisis in the euro area is turning into a panic and dragging the zone into recession. The risk that the currency disintegrates within weeks is alarmingly high                              Main image:                                           20111126_BBD001_0.jpg                                                FIRST Greece; then Ireland and Portugal; then Italy and Spain. Month by month, the crisis in the euro area has crept from the vulnerable periphery of the currency zone towards its core, helped by denial, misdiagnosis and procrastination by the euro-zone’s policymakers. Recently Belgian and French government bonds have been in the financial markets’ bad books. Investors are even sniffy about German bonds: an auction of ten-year Bunds on November 23rd shifted only €3.6 billion-worth ($4.8 billion) of the €6 billion-worth on offer.  Worse, there are signs that the euro zone’s economy is heading for recession, if it is not there already. Industrial orders in the euro zone fell by 6.4% in September, the ...   
   This post has been updated.THE bad news out of Europe is coming fast and thick now. Markets were still digesting news of Spain's terrible bond auction yesterday, in which the yield on its 3-month debt more than doubled, from 2.3% to over 5%. That was but an appetizer, however; in an auction of 10-year debt today, Germany failed to place some 40% of the issuance. The lack of appetite for German debt has come as a shock to many, and the language being used to describe matters is increasingly apocalyptic. "It is a complete and utter disaster", Reuters has one strategist saying. On the secondary market, German bond yields have finally joined those of its neighbours on their upward march. The German 10-year yield is up sharply today (update: this initially read that the 10-year yield was up 7 percentage points on the day; in fact it was up 7%), and back above 2%. It still has a way to go to catch France and Austria (approaching 4%), Belgium (over 5%), and Spain and Italy (back near 7%).Trouble at big European banks is growing; the euro-zone banking system is increasingly reliant on the European Central Bank for funding. The prospect of bank failures is a troubling one given the fiscal strain on European sovereigns; no one wants to find itself in Ireland's position, squarely in bond vigilantes' crosshairs having assumed the obligations of sinking banks. Uncontrolled ...   
   ONE can almost hear the gates clanging: one after the other the sources of funding for Europe’s banks are being shut. It is a result of the highly visible run on Europe’s government bond markets, which today reached the heart of the euro zone: an auction of new German bonds failed to generate enough demand for the full amount, causing a drop in bond prices (and prompting the Bundesbank to buy 39% of the bonds offered, according to Reuters).Now another run—more hidden, but potentially more dangerous—is taking place: on the continents’ banks. People are not yet queuing up in front of bank branches (except in Latvia’s capital Riga where savers today were trying to withdraw money from Krajbanka, a mid-sized bank, pictured). But billions of euros are flooding out of Europe’s banking system through bond and money markets.At best, the result may be a credit crunch that leaves businesses unable to get loans and invest. At worst, some banks may fail—and trigger real bank runs in countries whose shaky public finances have left them ill equipped to prop up their financial institutions.To make loans, banks need funding. For this, they mainly tap into three sources: long-term bonds, deposits from consumers, and short-term loans from money markets as well as other banks. Bond issues and short-term funding have been seizing up as the panic over government bonds has spread to banks (which ...   
   ANOTHER Monday, and the crisis in Europe continues to build. Euro-zone governments continue to tumble; Spain forcefully ejected its Socialist government on Sunday. Its recent rule coincided with economic collapse, rising unemployment, and round after round of austerity, as the government sought to get ahead of the debt crisis. The new government's large majority will give it more room to manage an unmanageable crisis. Spanish yields are rising today, along with those of Italy. The crisis is beyond the power of individual governments to solve on their own; coordination is key.Which makes one piece of news out of Brussels today seem at least somewhat auspicious. The European Commission has put together a white paper, to be released this week, proposing the creation of euro bonds. It appears that three different options are discussed, moving along the spectrum of shared risk. In those least ambitious version, the combined governments of the euro zone would provide some guarantee for the newly issued bonds of national governments. In the most ambitious scheme, the euro zone would approve individual budgets, which would be financed through euro bonds. The paper is best understood as just another step forward in the long process of tighter fiscal integration within the euro zone. The problem, of course, is that Europe wouldn't appear to have that much time to put together ...   
   GEORGE OSBORNE, Britain's finance minister, has been criticised for trying to pull the country out of its budgetary hole too quickly. Is he also dumping the state's banking interests with undue haste? On November 18th the government announced it was selling Northern Rock, a mortgage bank nationalised in February 2008, for an initial cash payment of £747m. The buyer is Virgin Money, part of the private conglomerate run by Richard Branson, a publicity-hungry businessman.The sale price is below the £1.4 billion the state had put into the bank to keep it solvent. And opposition politicians (plus a few in Mr Osborne's own party) have questioned the timing of the sale, when the value of bank shares across Europe are depressed. But the deal looks a reasonable one for the British taxpayer. Hanging on to the bank until stockmarkets picked up might have sharply diminished its remaining franchise value. What is more, the government added a few sweeteners for itself. Virgin has committed not to lay off staff for three years and to keep the bank's headquarters in Newcastle, a city short of private-sector employers. In addition to the upfront £747m, a further cash payment of £50m is due within 6 months of the deal completing. The state will also receive a £150m ...   
   SO “THE BEARDED ONE”, as some in business and the media refer to Sir Richard Branson, is becoming a high-street banker in Britain, following today’s announcement that Virgin Money will acquire the state-owned Northern Rock for £747m ($1.18 billion). Cassandra must declare an interest: some of my modest savings are in Northern Rock, which was taken over by the government in 2008 after the financial crisis sparked a run on the bank. Should Northern Rock’s depositors feel nervous that they no longer benefit from the absolute safety of state-ownership—or should they congratulate Sir Richard (whose first bid for the bank was turned down in 2008)? The irony, of course, is that Virgin is taking over Northern Rock just as the euro-zone crisis is threatening to provoke another global banking near-meltdown. Still, my preference is to be optimistic: Northern Rock’s dodgy assets have been hived off into a “bad bank” that remains in the government’s hands and Virgin’s Northern Rock, though a relative minnow in the banking sea, will bring some added competition in 2012 to Britain’s oligopolistic retail-banking sector (full business will apparently start in 2013). What really gladdens the heart, though, is the simple fact that Sir Richard will bring plenty of colour, flair and even glamour to the world of banking. Whether that will be enough to lessen the public’s present loathing of ...   
   ON FRIDAY, my colleague made the important point that Italy's crisis is not about Silvio Berlusconi. Similarly, the euro crisis is not about Italy. Italy has a new prime minister and is pushing through some reforms and fiscal consolidation measures. That's good news, but it hardly registers against the overwhelmingly negative trajectory across Europe. Greece is still struggling to put together a stable government. We learn today that Portugal's economy shrank in the third quarter and has now been recessing for a full year. Portugal isn't alone in that; euro zone industrial production dropped 2% in September. Production dipped 2.9% in Germany, 3.5% in Ireland, 1.3% in Spain, 1.9% in France, 4.8% in Italy, and 5.8% in Portugal. Italy managed to complete an auction of 5-year bonds today, but the yield on the debt rose to 6.29%.After an outbreak of panic selling in bond markets last Wednesday, yields fell on Thursday and Friday, seemingly because the ECB was in the market in force. Over the weekend, the head of the Bundesbank, Jens Weidmann warned that such bond purchases were against the ECB's rules, and he ruled out a lender-of-last-resort role for the central bank. Conceivably, the ECB could act despite Bundesbank opposition, but in practice it is difficult to see how the central bank could sustain a credible intervention without the Germans on board. And bond markets are ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Recapitalising Europe’s banks                              Rubric:                                           Policymakers agree that banks need more capital. Little else is clear                      WILDFIRES can sometimes only be stopped by the act of lighting a second blaze to create a firebreak. Europe’s policymakers seem finally to be edging towards similarly extreme measures. On October 9th Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy pledged to strengthen Europe’s financial system as part of their response to the euro zone’s debt crisis. That may well force cash-strapped governments to pump capital into banks to insulate them from the risk of government defaults.  There is little time to waste: Europe’s banks are being squeezed to death. On October 10th France and Belgium dismembered Dexia, a long-troubled lender. Also that day, Austria’s Erste Bank said it would post a loss because of write-downs on, among other things, contracts it had sold that would require it to pay up if peripheral euro-zone economies were to default.  Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy did not say how recapitalisation will proceed; more ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Fly Title:                                           Europe                              Rubric:                                           …would be so very hard to do for the euro zone                              Main image:                                           20120123_EUC001.gif                                                The euro area’s debt crisis, which started as a little local difficulty in Greece in early 2010, will become existential in 2012. A muddle-through approach will probably (just) prevail. Procrastinating European politicians may not do enough to keep the single currency together. But the European Central Bank (ECB), under its new leader, Mario Draghi of Italy, can act swiftly and with massive firepower, through creating money, if the alternative is the break-up of the euro zone.  But if muddling through is the most likely outcome, the risk of a break-up is uncomfortably high. The single currency’s survival in its present shape is no longer assured. The euro area could fragment. In theory, this could happen in one of two ways: a German-led exodus of northern creditworthy countries, or a forced departure of insolvent countries, Greece to the fore. Only one of these is plausible in practice. Germany will not destroy the ...   
   WORDS to chill a heart:The crisis in Europe has begun to spill over into US bank lending, according to the latest survey of loan officers by the US Federal Reserve.Credit conditions have steadily eased since the end of the recession but that process almost ground to a halt in the last three months, with only five domestic banks out of 50 saying that they relaxed their standards for lending to large companies. Two banks had tightened conditions.The retrenchment in bank lending in America is small relative to that in Europe, which will help push the euro zone into recession and place pressure on its banking systems. Here is more interesting reading on ECB purchases of sovereign debt and the approaching threshold for sterilsation operations. I have to say, I'm puzzled. Recent developments in the euro zone seem incredibly negative to me. The probability of a reasonably orderly conclusion of the crisis appears to be falling. Yet equities aren't dropping; indeed, they're up from early September. Has the roadrunner sprinted off the cliff but not yet looked down? Or am I missing something?UPDATE: As commenters point out, I was dreadfully off in suggesting that the roadrunner may have run off a cliff rather than the coyote. Sincere apologies.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Fly Title:                                           Swiss banks                              Rubric:                                           Banks in Switzerland are slimming down, but slowly                              Location:                                           ZURICH                       HARD TIMES for investment bankers on Wall Street and in the City of London also mean trouble on Bahnhofstrasse, the Zurich street that is home to Credit Suisse and UBS. Switzerland’s two global banks both recorded losses in investment banking for the third quarter.  On the back of these bad numbers, Brady Dougan, the boss of Credit Suisse, on November 1st announced a shift in its investment-banking strategy. The business of fixed-income sales and trading, which has suffered two bad quarters, will be cut back. Instead the bank will concentrate more on trading foreign exchange, equities and commodities for clients.  UBS, Credit Suisse’s bigger and more accident-prone rival a few doors up on Bahnhofstrasse, will probably announce further-reaching plans for its investment bank on November 17th. It recorded a SFr650m ($738m) loss in this bit of its business ...   
   UK Only Article:                       UK article only                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Fly Title:                                           The economy and the euro                              Rubric:                                           Britain’s strong links to the euro zone raise the risk of another recession                              Main image:                                           20111105_BRD001_0.jpg                                                THE third-quarter GDP figures released on November 1st surpassed expectations for once. The economy grew by 0.5% (an annualised rate of 2%), the fastest quarterly rate for more than a year. The estimate was flattered by a bounce-back from a weak second quarter, when output was temporarily depressed by the royal wedding and by interruptions to supplies in the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake. In any case, growing anxiety about a double-dip recession meant the half-decent growth figures were barely celebrated.  Prospects for the fourth quarter are dim. The Bank of England’s monetary-policy committee reckons that output will be flat, but even that may prove optimistic. The closely-watched purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing plunged from 50.8 to 47.4 in October (a reading ...   
   DURING the financial crisis of 2008, it became abundantly clear that America's banking system was not equipped to handle the failure of a large, systemically-important financial institution; the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers nearly brought down the global financial system. The government's response, however—to bail out large banks lest they destroy the broader economy—wasn't particularly satisfactory. It created substantial moral hazard problems and brought risks of its own, including taxpayer exposure to large bank losses and corruption concerns.After the dust settled, Congress set to work devising new banking rules designed to ensure that in the future too-big-to-fail banks could be allowed to fail. The resulting law has come to be known as Dodd-Frank. And one day, perhaps sooner than we'd prefer, the machinery of Dodd-Frank will be put to the test.To demonstrate how that might work, The Economist convened an all-star cast—including Larry Summers as Treasury secretary and Donald Kohn as head of the Federal Reserve—to participate in a simulation of a banking crisis, held at last week's Buttonwood Gathering in New York. A hypothetical large bank is on the brink of failure, and the invited experts are tasked with playing out the crisis' resolution within the constraints of the new regulatory framework. The simulation makes for fascinating, and instructive, ...   
   “BANK error in your favour—collect £50” is a welcome windfall familiar to players of Monopoly. But German finance ministry officials were not so pleased, on October 28th, to have to own up to an accounting mistake that had overstated the national debt by €55.5 billion.This small rounding error was discovered at FMS Wertmanagement, a government-owned “bad bank” set up in July 2010. Its assets, which include multiple toxic derivatives, were spun out of Hypo Real Estate (HRE), a lender that was rescued in October 2008 and fully nationalised in June 2009. Apparently, the balance sheet had been reckoned to total €357.8 billion instead of €301.8 billion. Assets held as collateral to offset derivatives positions had been added rather than subtracted. “We saw that it makes no sense to swell the balance sheet in this way,” explains an FMS spokesman.The find will have no effect on the federal budget, because the bad bank clean-up comes out of a special contingency budget. But there is an effect on Germany’s overall indebtedness, which now drops from 83.7% to 81.1% of GDP.Who is to blame? Opposition politicians are calling for Wolfgang Schäuble, Germany's Christian Democrat finance minister, to take responsibility since it happened on his watch. But that is a little unfair. One should surely be allowed to put one’s trust in bean-counters at HRE and FMS, or at PricewaterhouseCoopers, ...   
   THE 2012 election cycle is likely to feature plenty of inveighing against government underwriting of "too big to fail" financial institutions. From the left, the rhetoric will concentrate on the big bad financial industry, which demands that government bail it out or the economy gets it. From the right, it will concentrate on big bad government, which demands that the financial industry take its money in order to consolidate socialist control over the economy. Or something; I've never entirely understood how that argument runs.In any case, one line of argument the election cycle won't feature is candidates for senator from Nebraska, say, arguing that Nebraska taxpayers have no business bailing out New York banks. Or candidates for senator from Massachusetts, say, arguing that Massachusetts taxpayers have no business bailing out Georgia banks. That kind of argument, however, is now preventing the German political system from assembling the necessary political capital to save the euro, reports Quentin Peel.One of the best speakers in the Bundestag is Gregor Gysi, leader of the far-left Linke party, and he never misses an opportunity to taunt his more worthy rivals in big debates with embarrassing insights.‘Why don’t you tell the German taxpayers the truth?’ he demanded of Ms Merkel. ‘They are being asked to pay for the losses of the French banks’. The chancellor looked pained ...   
   ANDREW Haldane, the executive director for financial stability of the Bank of England, has given many excellent speeches but his latest effort is a must-read for anyone who wants to know how we got into this current financial mess.  The speech deals with "the flaw" that so confounded Alan Greenspan, how private sector investors failed to control risks in the banking sector. The problem was not that bank executives had no skin in the game; in 2006, the managers with the largest bank stakes were Dick Fuld of Lehman Brothers, Jimmy Cayne at Bear Stearns, Stan O'Neal at Merrill Lynch, John Mack at Morgan Stanley and Angelo Mozilo at Countywide. All lost substantial chunks of their wealth as share prices collapsed.  The fundamental problem is that tax rules (the deductibility of interest) and regulations encouraged banks to gear up their balance sheets. Effective control of the banks, however, rested with the shareholders. As Haldane puts it    Ownership and control rights are vested in agents comprising less than 5% of the balance sheet.  Thanks to limited liability, the losses of these shareholders are also constrained. In the early 19th century, liability was unlimited, prompting banks to run with much more conservative balance sheets. But that was deemed to deprive industry of much-needed capital so limited liability was brought in.  That transferred the responsibility for ...   
   IT’S not a bank problem, it’s a sovereign-debt problem, a chorus of European bankers have protested in the past few days. Among them, Josef Ackermann, chief executive of Deutsche Bank, insisted on October 13th that recapitalising the banks would not address the real issue, which is the fact that government bonds have lost their status as risk-free assets.Mr Ackermann has a point. Where else can banks keep their spare liquidity when not in government bonds, which used to be regarded by regulators and bank risk managers alike as risk-free assets? That meant that a large chunk of assets on bank balance sheets were counted against capital as zero risk. Not any more.Simply talking about recapitalisation is counter-productive, Mr Ackermann told a gathering in Berlin, because it sends signals that a haircut on sovereign debt (which will further add to the risk burden on bank capital) is ever more likely.These fine arguments did not do his bank much good. Within hours Fitch, a rating agency, had put Deutsche Bank on rating watch negative. Part of Fitch’s argument was that Deutsche might have difficulty reaching its target capitalisation under regulations known as Basel 3. That suggests it would have even more difficulty meeting targets sooner if the European Banking Authority suddenly recommends, as is being considered, an across-the-board core tier 1 capital target of between 7% ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Chinese banks                              Rubric:                                           If no one else can help                              Location:                                           HONG KONG                       FOR nine bloody weeks, China’s four biggest banks—which are also among the world’s largest—took a beating on the stockmarkets, especially in Hong Kong, where their “H” shares can be bought (lightly) and sold (heavily) by foreigners. From August 1st to October 7th, the Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of China and Agricultural Bank of China together lost over $109 billion in market value (counting both their “H” shares and their “A” shares listed on the mainland).                            They did not suffer alone. Other listed Chinese companies also fell, as investors fretted about China’s credit markets, both formal and informal, which are tightening; its property market (slowing); loans to its local governments (souring); and its overseas markets in America and Europe (contracting, perhaps).                In this sectionTipping the ...   
   IF ANGELA MERKEL and Nicolas Sarkozy had been captaining the Titanic when the iceberg was spotted, they would probably have issued a statement resolving to avoid it. This weekend’s emergency summit saw the leaders of France and Germany pledge to recapitalise European banks, but left the details open (an EU summit on October 23rd will now finalise a "comprehensive strategy"). “By the end of the month, we will have responded to the crisis issue and to the vision issue,” was Mr Sarkozy’s epically vague pledge.To be fair to the two leaders, even a promise to act on the banks is an advance. And the precise mechanics of recapitalisation are not trivial to work out. First, should bank rescues be carried out nationally, or using the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), the euro zone’s bail-out fund? Mrs Merkel is keen on letting governments take the strain, but that approach risks stigmatising banks and governments that have to rely on the EFSF and fuelling worries about the creditworthiness of countries that go it alone. The yields on Belgian government debt have risen as the burden of rescuing Dexia, a Franco-Belgian basket-case, has become clearer.Second, what should the required capital threshold be? Testing for a Greek default and setting a higher core-capital “pass rate” of 7% or 8% makes sense if banks do not have to contend with a wave of euro-zone sovereign ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magician                              Fly Title:                                           Western banks                              Rubric:                                           The debt crisis in Europe is draining confidence in banks                              Main image:                                           20111008_FND001_1.jpg                                                “THIS brutal lack of confidence” is how the chief executive of one of Europe’s biggest banks describes the situation facing his firm and its peers. The catalogue of troubles afflicting the institution (call it Bank X, so as not to punish it for its candour) shows how worrying the outlook has become for big banks, and hence for the real economy.  A bank-funding crisis that started on Europe’s periphery with worries over Greek, Irish and Spanish banks has now infected the core of the West’s financial system. The governments of France and Belgium said this week they would stand behind the debts of Dexia, a perennially troubled lender, while also engineering a break-up of the bank. Across the Atlantic shares in American banks whipsawed on worries about a Greek default and rumours of policy breakthroughs.             ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magician                              Fly Title:                                           Echoes of 2008                               Rubric:                                           The Europeans are pushing the global banking system to the edge                              Main image:                                           20111008_FND001_0.jpg                                                YOU know something bad is going to happen in a horror film when someone decides to take a late-night stroll in a forest. The equivalent in finance is a bank boss insisting that his institution is completely solid.  European bankers have been saying things are fine for weeks now, even as their exposure to indebted euro-zone countries strangles their access to funding. The amount of money parked at the European Central Bank (ECB) has risen to 15-month highs as banks hold back from lending to each other. Fears of contagion from Europe have now infected America (see article). Banks there led the S&P500 into official bear-market territory this week, as the index briefly dipped more than 20% below a high set in April. The chief executive of one embattled institution, Morgan Stanley, sent a memo to ...   
   JAKARTA'S financial circles are atwitter over a proposed change to banking ownership laws. in August, the government announced  that it would soon be disallowing ownership of bank shares by  financial entities beyond a certain threshold. That threshold was  undefined, as was the timeline, but 50% is the figure being bandied  about.The concern is that the law would apply retroactively, prompting  large divestments in important banks. Why on earth would Indonesia uproot the ownership structure of its  banking system? The plans were leaked in the more tranquil days of May.  But last week the Indonesian stock market collapsed by 8.8%, and the  dollar/rupiah touched 9,350, a nearly 10% drop since its high a week ago.  Part of this is the (hopefully temporary) shortage of greenbacks in Europe that is driving a pullback of dollar credit lines from  Southeast Asia. But it's also a reminder that Southeast Asia remains a  "risk-on" trade, subject to capital flows when the good times are  rolling, and teeth-chattering fear when the end is nigh. Regulators  cannot take investor sentiment for granted. If no bank owner can own more than 50%, then everybody is a minority  shareholder. Bank Indonesia says this would improve corporate  governance. "I don't understand how spreading accountability will make  banks safer," one local tycoon with substantial banking assets told me.  ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Many miles to go                              Fly Title:                                           European banks                              Rubric:                                           How much capital do lenders need?                              Main image:                                           20111001_FNP001_0.jpg                                                THE fire raging in Europe’s financial system is growing fiercer by the day. Banks across the region have been unable to sell any long-term unsecured bonds since early July. Short-term markets have also been closing to some banks. A few large corporations prescient enough to have their own banking licences are depositing their cash directly with the European Central Bank rather than entrusting it to banks. An obvious step to douse the flames would be to recapitalise European banks. Yet by how much and with what capital?  Global regulations are already forcing banks to plump up their cushions significantly. Nomura reckons that simply getting banks to comply with the new Basel 3 rules, plus an additional surcharge on globally important banks, could leave European lenders, Britain’s included, needing to raise more than €100 billion ...   
   Issue:                                           Blood and oil                              Fly Title:                                                                           Rubric:                                                                           Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           20110226_INC251_0.gif                        The amount of land planted with genetically modified (GM) crops grew by 10% in 2010 to 148m hectares (366m acres), according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), an industry body. America is by far the largest GM grower, with almost half the total number of hectares, followed by Brazil (which increased its GM area the most) and Argentina. GM is no longer the preserve of rich nations. Rates of growth are much higher in developing countries (up 17% in 2010) than in developed ones (only 5% up). Over 15m farmers planted GM crops in 2010; 94% of them come from developing countries, which include 19 of the 29 countries where GM technology is used.                     In this sectionOverview  Output, prices and jobs  The Economist commodity-price index  »Genetically modified crops  Trade, exchange rates, budget balances and interest rates  Markets  Wall Street bonuses  ReprintsRelated topicsBusiness  Economic ...   
   Where genetically modified crops are grown THE world's farmers planted 148m hectares of genetically modified crops in 29 countries last year, according to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications, an industry body. America is by far the biggest GM farmer, with 66.8m hectares under cultivation, 2.8m more than in 2009. As can be seen in our map, GM technology has been enthusiastically embraced in the Americas and in many Asian countries. By contrast, many European countries are subject to severe restrictions on growing GM crops. Developing countries are planting GM crops at a more rapid rate than rich countries. Brazil has added some 10m hectares since 2008 and overtook Argentina as the second-biggest grower in 2010. India, too, increased its area by over 10% last year. The most popular crop is soya, while the most common modification is tolerance to herbicides.      
   Issue:                                           The battle ahead                              Fly Title:                                           Rows over GM crops                                Rubric:                                           America may shift its policy on genetically modified crops                                Location:                                           CHICAGO                                Main image:                                           Spot the difference   
   "This house believes that biotechnology and sustainable agriculture are complementary, not contradictory"THE voting has shifted dramatically during this debate, starting out heavily in favour of the motion, swinging strongly in the other direction (seemingly in response to an organised campaign by anti-GM activists), and then swinging back towards the middle. But in the end the opponents of biotechnology—or, more precisely, the opponents of genetic modification in its current form—carried the day with 62% of the votes, against 38% for supporters of the motion.This is a subject that arouses strong passions on both sides, as can clearly be seen in the comments, but I hope you still found the debate informative. I certainly did, in particular because of the comments from farmers themselves, on both sides of the argument. Neither a rapprochement between the two sides, nor a resolution of the arguments one way or another, seems likely any time soon. Thank you all for participating.Moderator's note: The result is being announced in this rather unusual way (in the form of this blog post, rather than on the debate microsite) for an unusual reason; a reason that also explains why the voting tallies have appeared to leap around rather erratically during the debate. Several commenters pointed this out and suggested that this was evidence of foul play. In fact the explanation is ...   
   Issue:                                           Angry America                              Fly Title:                                           The future of biofuels                                Rubric:                                           Biofuels are back. This time they might even work                                Location:                                           London and san francisco                                Main image:                                           20101030_bbd001.jpg                        The electrification of cars, however the electricity might be generated, would be the end of the road for ethanol. But not necessarily for drop-ins. There is no realistic prospect for widespread electric air travel: the jet engines on aircraft need the high-energy density that only chemical fuels can provide. So if you want low-carbon flying, drop-in biofuels are the only game in town. And civil aviation alone is expected to use 250 billion litres of fuel this year, is growing fast and could pay a premium if its emissions were subject to a cap or a tax. Over the long run, the future for biofuels may be looking up.          Article body images:                                           20101030_bbc918.gif                                              20101030_bbc559.gif                                              20101030_bbd002.jpg                              ...   
   Issue:                                           The next emperor                              Fly Title:                                           Biotechnology in North Carolina                                Rubric:                                           North Carolina builds on the legacy of the golden leaf                                Location:                                           WINSTON-SALEM                        FOR much of the early 20th century, Winston-Salem was the biggest city in North Carolina. Its fortunes, like those of most of North Carolina, centred on tobacco and textiles: in 1940 60% of the city’s populace worked for one of the Hanes textile companies or for R.J. Reynolds (RJR), a tobacco company that was the city’s largest employer. But that was long before Hanes began moving much of its production offshore, and before the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (under which the tobacco companies agreed in 1998 to pay hundreds of billions of dollars in damages for harming people’s health), the leveraged buy-out of RJR by a private-equity firm, the elimination of federal farm price support for tobacco and decades of anti-smoking advertising.   Today tobacco warehouses and factories still dominate Winston-Salem’s centre. The Bailey Power Plant’s twin redbrick chimneys emblazoned with “RJR TOB CO” loom over the interstate. But the plant no longer ...   
   Issue:                                           Cyberwar                              Fly Title:                                           Biotechnology                                Rubric:                                           Behind the scenes, industrial biotechnology is getting going at last                                Location:                                           WASHINGTON, DC                                Main image:                                           201027wbc754.gif                        IS GREEN chemistry ready for take-off? Delegates at a big conference on “industrial biotechnology” held near Washington, DC, this week by Bio, the industry’s umbrella organisation, seemed to think so. Industrial biotech uses agricultural feedstocks, rather than petroleum-based ones, to produce chemicals, plastics and fuels. McKinsey, a consultancy, says global industry revenues will grow from €116 billion ($170 billion) in 2008 to as much as €450 billion by 2020. The World Economic Forum reckons the coming boom in “biorefineries” will create new markets worth almost $300 billion by 2020.  Industrial biotech seems to have been relatively unscathed by the financial crisis. Codexis, an American start-up backed by Royal Dutch Shell, an Anglo-Dutch oil giant, pulled off a stockmarket flotation in April. Amyris, another American start-up, secured an investment of around ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           And now, the electricity forecast                              Fly Title:                                           Monitor                              Rubric:                                           Food science: Fast-growing genetically modified trout and salmon could soon be the first transgenic animals on the table                              Main image:                                           Behold, the transgenic salmon (top)                      Behold, the transgenic salmon (top)  THE Belgian blue is an ugly but tasty cow that has 40% more muscle than it should have. It is the product of random mutation followed by selective breeding—as, indeed, are all domesticated creatures. But where an old art has led, a new one may follow. By understanding which genetic changes have been consolidated in the Belgian blue, it may be possible to design and build similar versions of other species using genetic engineering as a short-cut. That is precisely what Terry Bradley, a fish biologist at the University of Rhode Island, is trying to do. Instead of cattle, he is doing it in trout. His is one of two projects that may soon put the first biotech animals on the dinner table.  Belgian blues are so ...   
   Issue:                                           And man made life                              Fly Title:                                           Artificial lifeforms                                Rubric:                                           A new form of life has been created in a laboratory, and the era of synthetic biology is dawning                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201021bbp001.jpg   
   Issue:                                           And man made life                              Fly Title:                                           Synthetic biology                                Rubric:                                           Artificial life, the stuff of dreams and nightmares, has arrived                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201021ldd002.jpg   
   Issue:                                           Hope at last                              Fly Title:                                           Geoengineering                                Rubric:                                           Dealing with climate change might mean tinkering with the oceans and the atmosphere. Those who could do so would like the regulations to be clear                                Location:                                           asilomar                                Main image:                                           201014std001.jpg   
   Fly Title:                                           Genetic engineering                                Rubric:                                           Genetically modified fish could soon be on the table                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201014STP502_290.jpg                        THE Belgian blue is an ugly but tasty cow that has 40% more muscle than it should have. It is the product of random mutation followed by selective breeding—as, indeed, are all domesticated creatures. But where an old art has led, a new one may follow. By understanding which genetic changes have been consolidated in the Belgian blue, it may be possible to design and build similar versions of other species using genetic engineering as a short-cut. And that is precisely what Terry Bradley, a fish biologist at the University of Rhode Island, is trying to do. Instead of cattle, he is doing it in trout. His is one of two projects that may soon put the first biotech animals on the dinner table.  Belgian blues are so big because their genes for a protein called myostatin do not work properly. Myostatin is a hormone that regulates muscle growth. Disable its action and muscles will grow in parts of the anatomy where other animals do not even have them.   Dr Bradley has launched ...   
   Issue:                                           Spin, science and climate change                              Fly Title:                                           Letters                                Rubric:                                                                           Location:                                                                   Data in context   SIR – Your special report on managing information (February 27th) and data visualisation was a good update for the general reader, but adding a few caveats would have provided some foundation to think critically about what they were seeing. The sheer quantity, speed, beauty, complexity and sophistication of new visualisation techniques are amazing. But they are still susceptible to the prosaic deceptions of data displays such as scale, aspect ratio and placement.  In addition, intensive processing for visualisation can actually destroy information. Some methods average data-points across vast reaches of time, space and magnitude. Many techniques destroy the natural variation in the data and treat outliers as anomalies to be edited or ignored. Our knowledge of physical and economic reality requires that we understand both variability and extremes. If you doubt this, consider the original deceptive climate-change hockey stick, the Challenger O-ring failures, or the meltdown of securitised assets.                ...   
   Issue:                                           The data deluge                              Fly Title:                                           The spread of GM crops                                Rubric:                                           The developing world embraces a controversial technology                                Location:                                           NEW YORK                                Main image:                                           201009WBC055.gif                        A DECADE ago, after European activists whipped up lots of negative coverage about the perils of toying with nature, the future of genetically modified (GM) crops seemed uncertain. The technology was adopted by farmers in the rich world outside Europe, but poor countries seemed likely to be left behind. However, according to a report released on February 23rd by the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), a non-profit outfit that monitors the use of GM crops, the sector is blossoming, especially in the developing world, where poor and unproductive farmers have the most to gain from such advances.  Despite the decline in food prices and the global economic downturn last year, the use of GM technology increased by about 7%, according to ISAAA. More than three-quarters of the soyabeans grown around the world are now genetically ...   
   Issue:                                           The data deluge                              Fly Title:                                           Genetically modified food                                Rubric:                                           The success of genetically modified crops provides opportunities to win over their critics                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201009LDD002.jpg   
   Issue:                                           New dangers for the world economy                              Fly Title:                                           India and GM food                                Rubric:                                           A setback for GM in India                                Location:                                           Bangalore                                Main image:                                           APGM can have some remarkable effects                      GM can have some remarkable effectsAP  HUNDREDS of farmers in long, faded cotton sarongs swarmed outside an auditorium at Bangalore University on February 6th. They were waiting for India’s Environment Minister, Jairam Ramesh. This was the last of his public consultations on the commercial release of Bt Brinjal, a genetically modified (GM) aubergine, created by Mahyco, an Indian hybrid-seed company, and Monsanto, an American biotech giant. Waving placards and appetising images of aubergines, known in India as brinjal, they shouted themselves hoarse praising the transgenic vegetable.  But most of these men, registered at the consultation as farmers, were in fact landless labourers with no aubergine experience. Mr Ramesh was the first to call their bluff. The companies, he said, without naming any, had bussed farmers from rural districts, to play the pro-GM crowd at ...   
   Issue:                                           Time to get tough                              Fly Title:                                           Stem cells in China                                Rubric:                                           In the field of stem cells, China is showing that it can do world-class science. It is a shame, then, that so many fraudsters operate and that officialdom turns a blind eye                                Location:                                           Beijing                                Main image:                                           Illustration by David Simonds   
   Issue:                                           The quiet American                              Fly Title:                                           Synthetic biology                                Rubric:                                           A genetically engineered bacterium makes a greener plastic                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           Getty ImagesNow biodegradable                      Now biodegradableGetty Images  ONE of the most promising alternatives to plastics made from oil is polylactic acid (PLA). It is biodegradable, safe enough to be used as food packaging, can be processed like existing thermoplastics into coloured or transparent material and can be manufactured from renewable resources such as maize and sugarcane. Although PLA has been around for decades, it is only in recent years that advances in production techniques, particularly by Cargill, a big American agricultural group, have made it feasible to produce the material commercially. Now a group of researchers led by Lee Sang-yup of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology say they have come up with an even better way to make PLA, using the emerging science of synthetic biology.  At the moment PLA is usually made in two stages. First, a source of starch or sugar, ...   
   Issue:                                           Dealing with America's fiscal hole                              Fly Title:                                           Monsanto                                Rubric:                                           The debate over whether Monsanto is a corporate sinner or saint                                Location:                                           St Louis                                Main image:                                           Monsanto                      Monsanto  FEW companies excite such extreme emotions as Monsanto. To its critics, the agricultural giant is a corporate hybrid of Victor Frankenstein and Ebenezer Scrooge, using science to create foods that threaten the health of both people and the planet, and intellectual-property laws to squeeze every last penny out of the world’s poor. The list of Monsanto’s sins dates back to when (with other firms) it produced Agent Orange, a herbicide notorious for its use by American forces in Vietnam. Recently “Food Inc”, a documentary film, lambasted the company.  To its admirers, the innovations in seeds pioneered by Monsanto are the world’s best hope of tackling a looming global food crisis. Hugh Grant, the firm’s boss since 2003, says that without the sort of technological breakthroughs Monsanto has achieved the world has no chance of doubling agricultural output ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Bay Area science                                Rubric:                                           Lab by lab in and around San Francisco                                Location:                                                                   Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday  Monday  SAN FRANCISCO conjures up images of hippies and of free love, the psychedelic 60s and leftist politics. A member of Jefferson Airplane, a rock band, described it as “49 square miles surrounded by reality”. It has always had that air. In a letter written in 1889, Rudyard Kipling wrote of “a mad city, inhabited for the most part by perfectly insane people.”                Related topicsBiotechnology  California  United States  Stanford University  Health and fitness          But as someone who writes about science (and in the interests of full disclosure, practices it for a living), I see a different side of San Francisco and the broader Bay Area around it. I don’t see a region full of people looking to escape reality; I see scientists and engineers at universities, companies, and national labs probing and investigating that reality on a daily basis. Instead of mind-altering drugs, I see the world-altering technology that flows out of Silicon Valley.  A city built on scienceAFP/hemis.fr  Plutonium was first discovered in a Berkeley lab (as ...   
   Issue:                                           Concentrate!                              Fly Title:                                           Monitor                                Rubric:                                           Industrial biotech: A “third wave” of biotechnology is arriving. Will it be able to avoid a poor reception from the general public this time around?                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           Illustration by Belle Mellor   
   Issue:                                           Africa's next Big Man                              Fly Title:                                           North Carolina                                Rubric:                                           The state helps engineer a biotech boom                                Location:                                           RALEIGH                        DURING a laboratory session at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, a dozen students gathered around a chromatography column. They were sending clarified lysate through an anion exchange, and some compared notes on the peculiar chemical smell of the classroom. “It’s like bad chicken noodle soup,” said one, wrinkling her nose.   Others explained how they had ended up in the protective goggles and booties. Wrennie Edwards said that she had started her career in textiles, but now she was “transitioning” to a livelier field. Megan Crum explained that, growing up in Greensboro, she always wanted to be a vet. But once she got to university she realised that everyone wanted to be one. There were, she thought, more opportunities in biomanufacturing. Her father, who used to work in tobacco, was enthusiastic.   Thirty years ago manufacturing in North Carolina meant textiles and furniture, and neither was doing well. The loss of those traditional industries was a blow. But North ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Cutting the final cord                              Fly Title:                                           Monitor                              Rubric:                                           Tissue engineering: Attempts to grow artificial bone marrow in the laboratory have failed—but now a new approach is showing promise                      GROWING human cells in a laboratory is easy. Making those cells arrange themselves into something that resembles human flesh is, alas, rather more difficult. So-called tissue engineers have mastered the arts of making artificial skin and bladders, and they recently managed to cook up a windpipe for a patient whose existing one was blocked. But more complicated organs elude them. Nor has anyone managed to grow bone marrow.  At first sight, that is surprising. The soft and squishy marrow inside bones does not look like a highly structured tissue, but apparently it is. This does not matter for transplants: if marrow cells are moved from one bone to another they quickly make themselves at home. But it matters for research. Bone marrow plays an important role in the immune system and in bodily rejuvenation. Stem cells that originate within the marrow generate ...   
   SIGMAR GABRIEL, Germany's environment minister, deserves praise for his candour. He and his fellow ministers from the 27 European Union countries voted yesterday to allow Austria and Hungary to continue to ban a genetically modified variety of corn (maize), which has been approved for use by scientific advisers to the European Commission.Today I have no time to go into the rights and wrongs of GM crops. Let me just pay tribute to Mr Gabriel, a centre-left Social Democrat, for admitting straight out that part of his hostility to this modified corn comes from the fact that it is made by a large American company, Monsanto.Here is Mr Gabriel talking to reporters on the way into the vote:I don't see why we should pursue the interests of a single American corporation and, in the process, upset the citizens of EU member statesand here he is on the way out of the vote, wondering aloud why the European Commission keeps asking EU governments to lift the ban (hint: it's about upholding EU law):  I cannot imagine that a US government would be so engaged for a European company if its citizens were that much concerned, as the commission is engaged for an American company... I can't see any increase in social value through the products of MonsantoI suspect, alas, that Mr Gabriel is right about the American government, which probably would not expend so much effort on ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Tissue engineering                                Rubric:                                           Attempts to create artificial bone marrow have failed until now                                Location:                                                                   GROWING human cells in a laboratory is easy. Making those cells arrange themselves into something that resembles human flesh is, however, anything but. So-called tissue engineers have mastered the arts of artificial skin and bladders, and recently they have managed to rig up a windpipe for a patient whose existing one was blocked. But more complicated organs elude them. And simpler ones, too. No one, for instance, has managed to grow bone marrow successfully.  At first sight, that is surprising. The soft and squishy marrow inside bones does not look like a highly structured tissue, but apparently it is. That does not matter for transplants. If marrow cells are moved from one bone to another they quickly make themselves at home. But it matters for research. Bone marrow plays an important role in the immune system, and also in bodily rejuvenation. Stem cells that originate within the marrow generate various sorts of infection-fighting blood cells and also help to repair damaged organs. However, many anti-cancer and anti-viral drugs are toxic to marrow. That ...   
   TODAY'S recommended economics writing:• China's economic growth "miracle" (Vox)• Debt by degrees (New Yorker)• Future recession risks (San Francisco Fed)• Financial prudence is contractionary (Brad DeLong)   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Trade with China                              Rubric:                                           America’s latest anti-China bill tackles a problem already being solved                                                THE global economy is sicker than a man with a bellyful of bad oysters. The last thing it needs now is a trade war. Yet on October 11th America’s Senate passed the Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act, which would allow any “fundamentally misaligned” currency to be labelled a subsidy subject to countervailing duties. No prizes for guessing which large Asian nation the senators have in mind.  Variants of this bill have been introduced regularly since 2003; all have failed. But this time may be different: anti-China sentiment in both parties has grown. Republican leaders have so far resisted holding a vote on a similar bill in the House of Representatives and look unlikely to change their minds; but if they do, the bill would almost certainly pass.                In this sectionNowhere to hide  »And now, protectionism  Oranges are not the only fruit  Don’t aim too high  Thou orb aloft ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Rage against the machine                              Fly Title:                                           China’s economy                              Rubric:                                           A squeeze on lending hits China’s entrepreneurial heartland                              Location:                                           WENZHOU                               Main image:                                           20111022_FNP001_0.jpg                                                TAXI drivers, to the puzzlement of economists, often work long hours on slow days and clock off early in busy periods. In Wenzhou, a city in China’s Zhejiang province famous for its entrepreneurs, drivers are cannier. At busy times, they keep their “For hire” lights on even after picking up a passenger, hoping to find another fare going in the same direction. That way, they double their money—although only one fare registers on the meter.                                          In this section»Hitting the kerb  Darkness visible  Europe’s new dress code  Slow finance  Gauchos and gadflies  Unrest in peace  ReprintsRelated topicsIndustries  Property industry  Business  Chinese economy  Asian economy          With lots of ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Fly Title:                                           Bribery                              Rubric:                                           A new index of bribe-payers highlights slow progress in curbing sleaze                      BRIBERY involves two parties, not one. Lambasting officials in poor countries for their sticky fingers is usually easier (and less open to legal challenge) than investigating those who suborn them.  But on November 2nd Transparency International, a Berlin-based campaigning group, published an updated version of its Bribe Payers Index. Based on questions to 3,000 businessmen, this ranks 28 countries (accounting for 80% of global trade and investment) by the perceived likelihood of their companies paying bribes. Russia and China scored worst by a hefty margin. Dutch and Swiss companies were seen as the cleanest, with Belgium, Germany and Japan close behind. Construction and industries involving government contracts, unsurprisingly, were the dirtiest.  Disappointingly, the latest version of the index shows no significant change since the previous edition in 2008. That comes despite some big shifts in national legislation and ...   
   IT WAS only a matter of time before China was heralded as Europe’s escape route from its debt crisis. News that Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, called Hu Jintao, his opposite number in China, after the crisis summit on October 27th sparked speculation that China might put substantial amounts of money into the debt of troubled euro-zone borrowers. The chatter grew louder when Klaus Regling, the head of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), the euro area’s bail-out fund, visited Beijing a day later. And a poor post-summit Italian bond auction has made the need for a deus ex machina seem even greater.China certainly has lots of money to invest. its foreign-exchange reserves are reckoned at $3.2 trillion. It trades more with the EU than any other partner. It has exposure to the euro already. How much is not known, but currency analysts suspect that about a quarter of those reserves are already euro-denominated, giving it an incentive to keep the currency strong. It also suits China to play the part of a constructive economic actor.   
   READING American coverage of China's currency policy, one is often left with the impression that the Chinese government isn't allowing the yuan to rise faster because it doesn't realise the harm it's doing to its own economy, or because its simply too greedy to give up its competitive edge in trade. In reality, China is facing very difficult choices and is struggling to undo its previous decisions without destabilising the world's second-largest economy. Here (via Menzie Chinn) is Chinese macroeconomist Yu Yongding (apologies for long, but I think appropriate) block-quoting:It is clear that China should have brought to an end to the endless piling up of  foreign exchange reserves long time ago. There have been two basic  approaches for achieving this objective. The first approach is to reduce current  account surplus indirectly via narrowing the saving-investment gap. The  second one is to reduce current account surplus directly by dismantling trade  promotion policy, such as abolishing tax rebate and allowing renminbi to  appreciate. China has tried the two approaches at the same time with a very  cautious fashion. To reduce the saving gap by lowering the saving rate could  be an ideal solution. Unfortunately, due to various reasons, to achieve the  balance between saving and investment may take long time. By the time when  the Chinese economy has been rebalanced, no one ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Rage against the machine                              Fly Title:                                           China’s economy                              Rubric:                                           China’s economy is set to suffer hardship but not the hard landing that many fear                                                PERHAPS the only thing growing faster than China’s economy is worry about the country’s economy. Figures released this week showed China’s GDP still expanding briskly by anyone’s standards except its own: it grew by 9.1% in the third quarter, compared with a year earlier. But fears for China also boomed, judging by the dismal performance of Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong, the rising price of insurance against a Chinese sovereign default, and rare, downward pressure on its currency.  Some of this worry reflects problems beyond China’s borders or the government’s control. Chinese sales to the European Union, for example, plunged by 7.5% last month, their worst September drop since 1995. But in recent weeks China has become a net exporter of anxiety. Inflation is falling, but it has remained higher for longer than the authorities expected. The property market is also ...   
   CHINA'S economy grew at a 9.1% annual pace in the third quarter of this year. That's down a touch from the 9.5% rate notched in the second quarter, and it's a bit below expectations for 9.3% growth. Markets didn't much care for the news, but 9.1% is a pretty healthy clip given the weakness spreading across most of the world economy. Industrial production grew somewhat faster than expected, a nice surprise given PMI numbers that have shown China's manufacturing sector contracting slightly for much of the quarter. Generally, speaking, the hoped-for soft landing seems to be on track.At FT Alphaville, however, Kate Mackenzie collects comments on the report that provide reason for pessimism. In particular, China's exports have been falling rapidly in recent months, and especially sales to Europe. That may throw a wrench in China's plans to rebalance its economy. Amid strong export demand, it would be easier for China to relax the rules that artificially constrain consumption. Given a broad slowdown in key export markets, however, China may be reluctant to give up any of the edges that its manufacturers enjoy.Michael Pettis has written that Japan's growth slowdown didn't generate the public outcry one might have expected because beneath the headline figures the Japanese economy was rebalancing itself toward greater reliance on consumption. As a result, Japanese consumers felt as ...   
   TODAY'S recommended economics writing:• China: exporting inflation (beyondbrics)• Here's what the Wall Street protesters are so angry about (Business Insider)• Paging Dr. Romer (Mike Konczal)• Establishing the Federal Reserve (St Louis Fed)   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           China and jobs                              Rubric:                                           New research quantifies the effects of Chinese imports                      SHOULD a free trader laugh or cry? On October 12th, Congress finally ratified long-stalled trade pacts with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. But the previous day the Senate threw down the gauntlet to China. It passed, by a stonkingly bipartisan margin of 63-35, a bill that would authorise the Commerce Department to impose countervailing tariffs on Chinese imports it deems to have benefited from an undervalued currency. The bill is unlikely to pass in the House, but the vote is a sign that China-bashing, always popular in Congress, has become more so as America’s job market has struggled.  The latest figures show that the economy added 103,000 jobs in September and previous months’ totals were significantly revised up. Nonetheless, the unemployment rate remained at 9.1%, as jobs barely kept pace with labour force growth; and manufacturing employment fell.  The bill’s advocates, some of whom claim, implausibly, that the yuan is as ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Chinese banks                              Rubric:                                           If no one else can help                              Location:                                           HONG KONG                       FOR nine bloody weeks, China’s four biggest banks—which are also among the world’s largest—took a beating on the stockmarkets, especially in Hong Kong, where their “H” shares can be bought (lightly) and sold (heavily) by foreigners. From August 1st to October 7th, the Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of China and Agricultural Bank of China together lost over $109 billion in market value (counting both their “H” shares and their “A” shares listed on the mainland).                            They did not suffer alone. Other listed Chinese companies also fell, as investors fretted about China’s credit markets, both formal and informal, which are tightening; its property market (slowing); loans to its local governments (souring); and its overseas markets in America and Europe (contracting, perhaps).                In this sectionTipping the ...   
   TONIGHT the focus is the economy and the setting is New Hampshire, where polls show Mitt Romney with a substantial lead over his rivals. Chris Christie gave him another boost today, declaring him "the best person to articulate Republican values". But many in the party disagree, and the search is still on for an alternative. Rick Perry seemed so right, but then it all went so wrong over the course of two weeks and three debates. Even an adequate performance tonight would buoy his campaign. The man to watch, though, will be the man in the middle, Herman Cain. Riding high in the polls, Mr Cain will have the spotlight thrown on him tonight. Dial 9-9-9 for entertainment!____________________________________________________________________ 10:04: That's all for tonight folks. As always, thanks for participating in comments.10:01: ...and a show on Fox.10:01: ...and lots of book sales.10:01: Blue, I think he's riding the momentum straight to a distant second place.10:00: I think Cain owes his surge to the clear sales proposition of the 9-9-9 plan. The question is whether he can ride the momentum into a real, legitimate candidacy.9:59: Purple is spot on—Charlie Rose made Perry look poised. Cain definitely managed to get lots of attention for 9-9-9, which can only be good for him and for his ideas. Huntsman had a better night than usual, but not good enough to earn much traction from ...   
   The yuan/dollar exchange rate and America's trade deficit with China  ON OCTOBER 11th the Senate is due to vote on a bill that would lead to sanctions being taken against countries whose currencies are "misaligned". One currency in particular—the yuan—is on the minds of legislators.  But as the chart below suggests, the recent relationship between China's currency and America's trade deficit with China is not what China hawks in the Senate think it is. Rather than a cheap yuan leading to a flood of Chinese imports, the yuan has actually strengthened as the deficit has widened. There are many things American companies dislike about the way business is done in China: intellectual-property theft, the impossibility of winning government contracts, baffling rules on corporate ownership and so on. However the place for fixing these things is the World Trade Organisation, not Congress. President Obama's administration has already passed on two opportunities to label China a currency manipulator, out of a well-founded fear of sparking a trade war. Senators should do the same (while hoping that China responds to their sabre-rattling by letting the yuan rise a little more, as happened the last time the Senate came close to passing a similar measure, in 2005).   
   ONCE again, America's Congress is considering punitive action against China over its currency policy, and once again a debate is raging over whether this is a good idea. Paul Krugman is leading the charge yet again, and he's preemptively responding to a number of arguments against action on China—but not mine.The issue is not whether a floating yuan would be, on balance, good for America. It would; the dollar would probably weaken against the yuan, which would probably result in a reduction in America's multilateral trade balance. This isn't guaranteed, of course. The dollar has been rising against the euro and many emerging-market currencies of late, mostly thanks to broader financial fear. The resulting shifts could offset depreciation against the yuan, and that's assuming that a China with fewer restriction on capital movements wouldn't be subject to the same capital outflows as other emerging markets. It does seem likely, however, that the American economy would adjust somewhat more easily given a floating yuan.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           A game of catch-up                              Rubric:                                           China’s economy could overtake America’s within a decade                              Main image:                                           20110924_SRD008_0.jpg                                                IN 2010 CHINA shot past Japan to become the world’s second-largest economy (based on current market prices). But when might it supplant America at number one? The answer depends on how the exchange rates are calculated. The IMF’s forecasts and the long-run tables of GDP compiled by the late Angus Maddison, an economic historian, are based on purchasing-power parity (PPP), which makes allowances for the lower prices of non-traded services in poorer countries. On that basis, the size of China’s economy is already close to America’s and is likely to overtake it by 2016.  China is further behind when its economy is measured in current dollars (and much further in terms of GDP per person). America’s GDP in 2010 was $14.5 trillion at current market prices; China’s was $5.9 trillion. How quickly the gap is closed depends on three things: the relative speed of real GDP growth in China and America ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           A game of catch-up                              Fly Title:                                           Converging economies                               Rubric:                                           To become rich, the emerging markets must spring the middle-income trap                              Main image:                                           20110924_SRD003_0.jpg                                                WITH A MAXIMUM speed of 430kph (267mph), the Shanghai magnetic-levitation (or maglev) train is as much fairground ride as vital cog in the city’s transport system. A stretch of the 30km track from Longyang Road to Pudong International Airport runs alongside a motorway. The speeding cars left behind are a guide to how fast the train is moving. For passengers who like to quantify their thrills, a digital speedometer in each carriage counts up the train’s acceleration to its top speed before the numbers tumble again as the train slows towards the airport terminal.  The Shanghai maglev is a powerful symbol of China’s modernity—even if the technology was developed in the 1960s in slowcoach Britain and the kit was made by Siemens, a German engineering firm. But the venture is not a ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           A game of catch-up                              Fly Title:                                           The path ahead                               Rubric:                                           The West’s relative decline is inevitable but the East’s rise will still be troublesome                              Main image:                                           20110924_SRD004_0.jpg                      IT IS A crisp Friday morning in Santa Isabel, a small Brazilian town 60km north-east of São Paulo. Gabriel de Matos, technology director at Paramount Textiles, is taking delivery of the latest machine for dyeing the wool yarn that is made here. It won’t look out of place: most of the equipment is less than ten years old. The machines for spinning yarn are 40% faster than the ones they replaced. The new kit has allowed Paramount to supply finer-grade wools for the men’s suits its customers make.  The factory refit and the move upmarket was a response to competitive pressures that have driven many local rivals out of business. The global market for woollens has halved since the mid-1990s. Consumers these days prefer casual clothes, but Brazil is now too rich to compete with cotton producers in ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Hunting the rich                              Fly Title:                                           The world economy                              Rubric:                                           The emerging economies have had a great decade. That was the easy part                                                THIS month Italy’s government sold a slug of five-year paper at one of its regular bond auctions. There was barely enough demand for the bonds to meet supply, even at a steep interest rate. Contrast that with the sale in August of 20 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) of paper by China in Hong Kong’s fledgling offshore market. The yield was miserly yet there were more than four times as many bids as there were bonds for sale.  This tale of two bond auctions is a parable for the contrasting fortunes of near-stagnant rich economies and fast-growing emerging markets. Twenty of the 42 economies covered in the back pages of The Economist grew by 3% or more in the year to the latest quarter. Only two of these, Austria and Sweden, are from the traditional group of rich countries. The rest are developing economies, such as Brazil and Turkey, or newly rich ones, such as Taiwan and Hong Kong. The IMF’s ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Hunting the rich                              Fly Title:                                           Copper                              Rubric:                                           The world’s most informative metal                              Main image:                                           20110924_FNP001_0.jpg                                                THE locked doors of a public library in West Norwood, a drab part of south London, are an unlikely economic indicator. But a plaintive note explaining the closure—thieves have stripped the roof of its copper cladding, letting in rain on the books below—hints at profound changes to the global economy. And copper is the metal most intimately affected.  Police in London note a close correlation between thefts like the one in West Norwood and global commodities markets. Around the world, copper crimes have soared along with its price. Filched cables have reportedly caused train delays and stalled repairs to telecoms networks. Heating boilers, pipes and air-conditioners have been ransacked. Criminals are clearly sensitive to the gyrations of the global economy. Copper is reckoned to go one better: it earned its moniker of “Dr Copper” for ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           A game of catch-up                              Fly Title:                                           Reserve currencies                              Rubric:                                           The yuan is still a long way from being a reserve currency, but its rise is overdue                              Main image:                                           20110924_SRD005_1.jpg                                                AT THE FLAGSHIP store of Yue Hwa Chinese Products in Hong Kong customers can find exotic and everyday items from mainland China without having to cross the border. The offerings include silk brocades, sandalwood carvings, Sichuan peppers and traditional Chinese remedies such as ribbed antelope horns. Horn shavings, boiled in water, are said to quieten the liver and quell fevers.  Feverish visitors from the mainland can even pay for their shavings in their own currency, the yuan. The store charges 2,660 yuan ($416) for a whole horn, at an exchange rate of 1.1 Hong Kong dollar per yuan. Nearby money-changers offer a better rate, but some Chinese visitors prefer the convenience of using their own money. That way they can still get a late-night snack at the 7-Eleven after the ...   
   By 2030 China's economy could loom as large as America's in the 1970s  A NEW book, discussed in this week's Economics focus, by Arvind Subramanian of the Peterson Institute for International Economics argues that China’s economic might will overshadow America’s sooner than people think. Mr Subramanian combines each country’s share of world GDP, trade and foreign investment into an index of economic “dominance”. By 2030 China’s share of global economic power will match America’s in the 1970s and Britain’s a century before. Three forces will dictate China’s rise, Mr Subramanian argues: demography, convergence and “gravity”. Since China has over four times America’s population, it only has to produce a quarter of America’s output per head to exceed America’s total output. Indeed, Mr Subramanian thinks China is already the world’s biggest economy, when due account is taken of the low prices charged for many local Chinese goods and services outside its cities. China will be equally dominant in trade, accounting for twice America’s share of imports and exports. That projection relies on the “gravity” model of trade, which assumes that commerce between countries depends on their economic weight and the distance between them.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The new special relationship                              Fly Title:                                           Economics focus                              Rubric:                                           By 2030 China’s economy could loom as large as Britain’s in the 1870s or America’s in the 1970s                                                IT IS perhaps a measure of America’s resilience as an economic power that its demise is so often foretold. In 1956 the Russians politely informed Westerners that “history is on our side. We will bury you.” In the 1980s history seemed to side instead with Japan. Now it appears to be taking China’s part.  These prophesies are “self-denying”, according to Larry Summers, a former economic adviser to President Barack Obama. They fail to come to pass partly because America buys into them, then rouses itself to defy them. “As long as we’re worried about the future, the future will be better,” he said, shortly before leaving the White House. His speech is quoted in “Eclipse”, a new book by Arvind Subramanian of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Mr Subramanian argues that China’s economic might will overshadow America’s sooner than people think. ...   
   I'VE been thinking a lot about this Michael Pettis post from the weekend, in which he offers some economic predictions for the remainder of the decade. What's most interesting about his thinking is the way he orients his model of economic activity around balance of payment dynamics. Here's an example:Since most global consumption comes from the US, Europe and Japan, the collapse in their demand will ultimately be very painful for the BRICs and the rest of the developing world. The latter have postponed the impact of contracting consumption by increasing domestic investment, in some cases very sharply, but the purpose of higher current investment is to serve higher future consumption. In many countries, most notably China, the higher investment will itself limit future consumption growth, and so with weak consumption growth in the developed world, and no relief from the developing world, today’s higher investment will actually exacerbate the impact of the current contraction in consumption.Mr Pettis argues that the pivot around which the BRIC economies (and China especially) swing is reliance on advanced-country demand. As that anchor (sorry, mixing metaphors) becomes dislodged, BRIC economies will face difficult internal structural changes.You might not buy all of his predictions, but it's a compelling way to view the big trends in the global economy, and especially the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Going, going…                              Main image:                                           20110827_WWP003_1.jpg                      Steve Jobs decided to step down as chief executive of Apple. He is battling health problems and is on his third period of medical leave, but will stay on in a newly created position as chairman of the board. Mr Jobs’s replacement is Tim Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer since 2007. As he announced his departure Mr Jobs was widely praised for his visionary leadership, which has turned Apple into today’s dominant force in consumer electronics. See article  Investors responded negatively to Hewlett-Packard’s shift in its strategy, after it said it wanted to hive off its PC business and focus on software and services. HP took in $40 billion in revenues last year from PCs, leaving many to wonder how it would make up the shortfall. Underlining its new direction, HP agreed to pay $10.3 billion for Autonomy, a British software company, the biggest deal to date in Europe’s IT industry. See article  The post-PC world?                In this sectionPolitics this week  »Business this week  KAL's cartoon  ReprintsRelated topicsWorld markets  Financial ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Going, going…                              Fly Title:                                           Mexico’s economy                              Rubric:                                           The Mexican economy has recovered somewhat from a scorching recession imported from America, but is still hobbled by domestic monopolies and cartels                              Location:                                           SALTILLO                               Main image:                                           20110827_BBP001_0.jpg                        HOT and high in the Sierra Madre, the city of Saltillo is a long way from Wall Street. Stuffed goats keep an eye on customers in the high-street vaquera, or cowboy outfitter, where workers from the local car factories blow their pesos on snakeskin boots and $100 Stetsons. Pinstriped suits and silk ties are outnumbered by checked shirts and silver belt-buckles; pickups are prized over Porsches.  The financial crisis of 2008 began on the trading floors of Manhattan, but the biggest tremors were felt in the desert south of the Rio Grande. Mexico suffered the steepest recession of any country in the Americas, bar a couple of Caribbean tiddlers. Its ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           A guide to goodness                              Rubric:                                           Want to know if a product is virtuous? There’s an app for that                              Location:                                           NEW YORK                               Main image:                                           Someone spilled hypocrisy on aisle five                                    Someone spilled hypocrisy on aisle five            AS HE applied sunscreen to his young daughter’s face, Dara O’Rourke, a professor of environmental and labour policy at the University of California, Berkeley, found himself wondering if the lotion was safe. He realised there was no readily available answer. The result—two years, a team of chemists, lots of testing and a chunk of venture capital later—is GoodGuide.com. Launched in 2008, this is a website and smartphone app that rates 140,000 consumer products (currently only in America) according to their safety, environmental sustainability and the ethics of the firms that make them. Now GoodGuide has created a new “purchase analyser” app ...   
   STEVE JOBS famously dismissed the notion of a seven-inch (18cm) screen as neither fish nor fowl as such awkward gadgets began to dribble out in 2010. Roughly 3.5 inches and ten inches, he declared, were ideal. Unsurprisingly, those are the sizes of his iPhone and iPad, respectively. Jeff Bezos, the boss of Amazon, was not convinced. Having sold millions of six-inch, grey-scale Kindle e-book readers, Mr Bezos bumped the size up a bit and added colour—and may have created the first viable alternative to Apple's slate. The Fire is no iPad clone, either, as many other tablets tried, largely unsuccessfully, to be. Rather, just as Apple did with the iPad, Amazon creates a whole new niche, which it then fills.Your correspondent purchased a Kindle Fire, which arrived on November 16th, and was immediately struck by how versatile and enjoyable it is to use. The Fire, which set your correspondent back $199, less than half the price of the cheapest iPad, was always intended for consuming media and playing games, rather than creating and manipulating content. There is no microphone or camera. (Bizarrely, volume-control buttons are also missing, and the power button is inconveniently placed at the bottom centre.)After hours of use, Babbage found that, indeed, it shines brightest when playing video and pumping out audio. Reading is not as pleasant an experience as on Kindle's ...   
   OUR buddies over at Babbage highlight the tremendous, semi-masochistic, wisdom-spreading and copyright-finagling move at Springer Group, an academic publisher, to digitise its archive of 65,000 titles. The effort has been tricky: There were non-legal challenges, too. For example, until 1941 German  books were typically set in a blackletter type style known as Fraktur,  and sometimes mistakenly called Gothic. (Fraktur was banned in 1941 by  Hitler's secretary, Martin Bormann, for being too Jewish.) The intricate  black-letter face can be difficult for modern readers to decipher. It  was a tough ask for modern optical-character-recognition software, too,  which had to be trained to accommodate it. On top of that, the  dictionaries used by the software needed to be supplemented with  obsolete words that were commonly used in the 19th century.One small and clearly annoying step for digitising software, but a giant leap for reader access. Read on   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Cybercrime                              Rubric:                                           Is cybercrime as big as its foes fear?                      BIG numbers and online crime go together. One well-worn assertion is that cybercrime revenues exceed those from the global trade in illegal drugs. Another nice round number is the $1 trillion-worth of intellectual property that, one senator claimed earlier this year, cybercriminals snaffle annually.  It is hard to know what to make of these numbers. Online crooks, like their real-world brethren, do not file quarterly reports. In the absence of figures from the practitioners, experts tend to fall back on surveys of victims, often compiled by firms that sell security software. These have a whiff of self interest about them: they are the kind of studies that get press released but not peer reviewed.  A paper by two researchers at Microsoft, Dinei Florencio and Cormac Herley, shows why: because losses are unevenly distributed. Most people never have their bank accounts raided by cyber criminals, but an unfortunate few do, and lose a lot. This means that ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Rubric:                                           Dennis Ritchie and John McCarthy, machine whisperers, died on October 8th and 24th respectively, aged 70 and 84                              Main image:                                           20111105_OBP001_0.jpg                                                NOW that digital devices are fashion items, it is easy to forget what really accounts for their near-magical properties. Without the operating systems which tell their different physical bits what to do, and without the languages in which these commands are couched, the latest iSomething would be a pretty but empty receptacle. The gizmos of the digital age owe a part of their numeric souls to Dennis Ritchie and John McCarthy.  As was normal in the unformed days of computer science in the 1950s and 1960s, both men came to the discipline through maths. They were rather good with numbers. As a teenager Mr McCarthy taught himself calculus from textbooks found at the California Institute of Technology in balmy Pasadena, where his family had moved to from Boston because of his delicate health. Mr Ritchie was not quite as precocious. He breezed through ...   
   AS IT happens, I'm one of those people willing to risk opening a conversation with the stranger sitting next to me on a plane. But I don't believe I have a right to expect a conversation in return. For a lot of people, the only good thing about being on a plane is that it offers you a bit of down time and reading time. And there are plenty of easy ways, such as an iPad and headphones, for the victim of an unwanted approach to take polite evasive action. So my sympathies are all with Mitt Romney when, it is reported in the New York Times, he was less than totally effusive on a recent flight:According to Ms McClanahan, about an hour into the flight — which Mr Romney mostly spent reading USA Today and using an iPad while wearing headphones — she told him her idea for improving the  American health care system: slashing overhead costs by switching to an  electronic billing system.“He looked at me blankly and said, ‘I understand,’ then put his iPad headphones in and kept reading,” she said.While  Ms McClanahan said Mr Romney was probably exhausted, she was  disappointed he showed so little interest. Even another passenger’s  request for a restaurant recommendation in Boston elicited little from  Mr Romney, she said. “I can’t give you any,” he said, according to Ms  McClanahan. “You’ll have to ask someone else.”Do different rules apply if you are a presidential candidate? For ...   
   AN APOCRYPHAL tale is told about Henry Ford II showing Walter Reuther, the veteran leader of the United Automobile Workers, around a newly automated car plant. “Walter, how are you going to get those robots to pay your union dues,” gibed the boss of Ford Motor Company. Without skipping a beat, Reuther replied, “Henry, how are you going to get them to buy your cars?”Whether the exchange was true or not is irrelevant. The point was that any increase in productivity required a corresponding increase in the number of consumers capable of buying the product. The original Henry Ford, committed to raising productivity and lowering prices remorselessly, appreciated this profoundly—and insisted on paying his workers twice the going rate, so they could afford to buy his cars.For the company, there was an added bonus. By offering an unprecedented $5 a day in 1914, he caused the best tool-makers and machinists in America to flock to Ford. The know-how they brought boosted production efficiency still further and made Ford cars ever more affordable. With its ingenious Model T, Ford became the first car company in the world to bring motoring to the masses.Economists see this as a classic example of how advancing technology, in the form of automation and innovation, increases productivity. This, in turn, causes prices to fall, demand to rise, more workers to be hired, and the economy to ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Fly Title:                                           Personalised news                              Rubric:                                           The struggle to make money out of news on tablets                              Location:                                           NEW YORK                       A CUSTOMISED, constantly-updating newspaper used to be the stuff of science fiction. Now, thanks to tablet devices like the iPad, there are several. Livestand, a news app launched this week by Yahoo!, joins a field that already includes Zite, bought recently by CNN; Editions, created by AOL; and Flipboard, which Google tried to buy last year. Rebuffed, Google is expected at some point to launch its own news app, code-named Propeller.                            These corporate giants aim to cash in on the desperation of traditional news publishers. A study last month by the Pew Research Centre with The Economist Group (this newspaper’s parent company) found that, less than two years after the iPad went on sale, 11% of American adults now own a tablet and more than half of this group read news on it each day. They are more avid news consumers than those ...   
   A MYSTERIOUS threat to cybersecurity, a new start-up from the founder of Second Life and innovative plans for Microsoft's Kinect device You can also listen to this audio item on Soundcloud, which allows readers to leave comments at specific points along the audio timeline. Click on the Soundcloud logo to leave a comment.   
   A PIECE in the New York Times earlier in the week explained why Wi-Fi connectivity in hotels has been getting slower of late. It seems the runaway success of tablet computers has created an army of people who like nothing better to do than sit in their hotel rooms and stream videos, placing a huge demand on the network.One possible solution would be to install a tiered system, so guests would pay differing rates for Wi-Fi depending on their proposed activity.The lowest level, suitable for basic Internet requirements like checking e-mail, would be free, but other levels would be priced depending on bandwidth requirements. According to iBAHN [an internet-service provider for the hospitality industry], iPads consume four times more Wi-Fi data per month than the average smartphone.Having to pay to use the internet is one of the standard gripes of hotel guests, particularly in smarter establishments. But if they and their fellows will continue watching online videos into the small hours, they'll probably have to start paying.   
   HAVING just taken up a new assignment in California in the early 1990s, following a five-year hiatus covering the financial roller-coaster of Japan, your correspondent was embarrassed to be asked each time he interviewed sources in Silicon Valley what was his employer’s web address—ie, its Universal Resource Locator or URL. For the first few months, he mumbled something about the core competency of newspapers and magazines being their well-honed ability to spread the word around the world overnight via print, not bits and bytes. When he could take the cajoling no longer, he got permission (though no money) from the higher-ups in London to create The Economist’s first web presence in his spare time. Not counting those evenings and weekends, the total cost of building The Economist’s first website came to $120—mostly spent on getting graphics scanned at Kinko’s. Hosting the site, on EarthLink, cost $20 a month. To your correspondent’s amazement, AOL subsequently ranked his botch-up as one of the top ten news sites in the world, ahead of Time Warner’s “Pathfinder” website, which reputedly cost $140m to build.What your correspondent learned from hand-coding the fledgling website was that it had better start loading within three or four seconds and have finished in less than 20 seconds—otherwise visitors would not hang around. With the majority of users relying in those days on ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Europe’s rescue plan                              Fly Title:                                           Nokia’s new phones                              Rubric:                                           The struggling phonemaker shows off its first Windows handsets                              Main image:                                           Hey, I’ve sold two phones!                                    Hey, I’ve sold two phones!            EIGHT months ago Stephen Elop, Nokia’s newish chief executive, told the Finnish phonemaker’s staff that they were “standing on a burning platform” and had no choice but to jump into the “icy waters” below. His plan for fishing the company out of the freezing briny rests largely on making smartphones that use Microsoft’s Windows operating system—and getting them to market quickly. On October 26th Mr Elop unveiled the first of these devices. On a live feed from Salo, in Finland, a proud employee packed a Lumia 800 into its box. It is due to go on sale in six European countries next month. It will have a cheaper sibling, the Lumia 710.  By recent standards, this is fast work. Nokia had been slow to cotton on to the popularity of touch screens. Its own operating ...   
   NOKIA rolls out a new range of smart phones, Wikileaks goes quiet and Oracle acquires a cloud computing firm  You can also listen to this audio item on Soundcloud, which allows readers to leave comments at specific points along the audio timeline. Click on the blue bar to visit the Soundcloud website and leave a comment.   Babbage: October 26th 2011 by TheEconomist   
   THE head of PARC on the business of invention, employing laser-printer know-how to purify water and creating an internet of content   
   Dennis Ritchie, a father of modern computing, died on October 8th, aged 70EVERY time you tap an iSomething, you are touching a little piece of Steve Jobs. His singular vision shaped the products Apple has conjured up, especially over the last 14 years, after Jobs returned to the helm of the company he had founded. Jobs's death in October resembled the passing of a major religious figure. But all of his technological miracles, along with a billion others sold by Apple's competitors, would be merely pretty receptacles were it not for Dennis Ritchie. It is to him that they owe their digital souls, the operating systems and programs which make them tick. In the early 1970s Mr Ritchie invented the C programming language. It fundamentally changed how software programs are created. Its popularity stemmed from a mix of robustness and efficiency. Crucially, it was thin. In geek-speak that means it used little computing power at a time when that was in short supply while allowing programmers to control hardware directly with little effort. It was also portable. A C program written for one computer could be modified to work on another. (This is not always easy, but it is possible.) If that were not world-changing enough, Mr Ritchie was also instrumental (with Ken Thompson and others) in developing Unix, an operating system project begun in 1969 that was originally intended to be a ...   
   American wireless providers promise to end "bill shock", Apple has a disappointing third quarter and computers learn to read CAPTCHAs   
   AS A child, Babbage struggled to master the well-formed curlicues and prim horizontal strokes of cursive handwriting. He never quite got the hang of it, only to be rescued by the digital age. Now, though, researchers led by Jeff Yan, of Newcastle University, have found that loops and crosses may prove critical online, too. In a paper co-authored with two colleagues he shows how these caligraphic fripperies can unlock the visual puzzle dubbed the Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart, but better known as CAPTCHAs.  The term CAPTCHA was coined in 2000 by Luis van Ahn and his fellow academics at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU). The idea was to stop spammers (and later criminals) creating accounts through which they could join forums and send e-mail by imposing a hurdle that would be tough for computers, but easy for human beings to scale. (This newspaper discussed the squiggles and potential future replacements in depth in 2009.)  Dr Yan's group looked at a popular CAPTCHA technique known as "crowding characters together" (CCT) in which letters simply overlap. CCTs were considered a hard computer science problem, and no algorithm had yet been capable of disentagling the twists and skews of layered text, whereas the human visual cortex performs the task swiftly. The team's method can pick out the ...   
   IF I owned an iPad, I would be giving serious thought to buying a protective G-Form sleeve. As demonstrated in this safety video, it looks capable of withstanding the most extraordinary pounding. And the video looks realistic enough to me, though some YouTube commenters disagree. (Hat tip)                    
   Zynga introduces an independent social gaming platform, RIM has a big outage and America races to build the world's best supercomputer   
   IN  1964 Marshall McLuhan, a media scholar, offered his now-famous dictum  that “the medium is the message.” Few people have done more to  illustrate that than Steve Jobs, the visionary founder of Apple, who  died on October 5th aged 56. Apple’s products have changed not just how  we communicate but what we communicate and even, arguably, what we  think. The phenomenon McLuhan identified was one of framing, of  inadvertent shaping: a group that watches a political debate on  television may have a different take on who won than the group that  listened on the radio. Jobs’s approach had a teleological dimension. "A  lot of times, people don't know what they want until you show it to  them," he once said. With his products, the medium often made the  message. Unlike something like Twitter or Facebook, where developers  have seemed content to let users repurpose and improvise, Apple has a  more interventionist ethos: here is the product, you should use it to do  this, and if you need help, go to the Genius bar. It’s a testament to  his phenomenal career that this only seems like a part of his legacy.To  some extent, this is just as McLuhan predicted. Apple has a distinctive  aesthetic that prioritises simplicity and straightforwardness.  (FoxNews.com's obituary for Mr Jobs featured a font that Glenn Fleishman  duly describes as "inappropriate.")  This aesthetic is just the ...   
   I READ this piece in Hotels magazine with interest. It’s an imagining of how a guest of the future might interact with his hotel during an overnight stay. Specifically it looks at how a modern hotel might utilise social media to improve the service it offers customers.For example:7 AM PST: You hop on a flight from LA to New York. Before take-off, you tweet, “Headed to NYC. Looking 4ward to drink poolside @ThompsonLES.” When you land and turn your mobile on, you have a Twitter response from @ThompsonLES, which reads, “We look forward to having you. Shall we reserve you a lounge chair?”And later on:6 PM: When you arrive back in your room, you notice you have a message on your hotel iPad. You open it, and it takes you directly to the hotel's Facebook videos, and in particular, a video illustrating the hotel spa's offerings. Beneath the video is a “click to reserve spa treatment” button. You do. And before setting the iPad down, you use the hotel's custom app to select and reserve a table at a recommended restaurant.It’s all very clever technically, and doubtless responds to some guest needs, but I find this vision leaves me a bit cold. It’s a future where the acme of customer service comes in the shape of rapid response to guest tweets, and where as many interactions as possible between guest and hotel happen seamlessly in cyberspace. Heaven forfend that you should actually go ...   
   AMAZON'S Kindle Fire was always going to set the tablet world ablaze. Even before it starts shipping in November, though, it has managed to reignite the debate over the relative merits of open versus closed software. Supporters of openness trumpet it as a way to promote ideas and competition, leading to greater consumer satisfaction and optimal prices. Closed systems, goes the argument, remove choice and ramp up prices. If only it were that simple. For a start, the distinction between open and closed is fuzzy. The Fire, for example, relies on Google's Android operating system (not the latest, tablet-spec version 3, but an earlier one designed for smartphones). Android is open—in the sense that anyone may view, modify and employ the source code in free or commercial applications without a license (other than that which comes at no cost with the code). Modifications to the code may have to be distributed publicly, depending on the specific license in question. (Android is a melange of code from many open-source projects and licensing terms for the ingredients vary.) But the touted openness extends only to the code. To display Google's trademarked Android name, offer the Android Marketplace for apps, or employ Google services (like turn-by-turn satellite navigation), a device maker must sign separate agreements with Google. Some in the industry allege that these restrict the ...   
   IF PATENTS are a measure of inventiveness, Americans have a long pedigree of inventing better mousetraps. With around 350 international patents granted per million population, they rank alongside the savvy Swedes—though neither can hold a candle to the ingenious Japanese or Swiss (with 1,200 and 500 patents per million respectively). Congress hopes to boost America’s ranking in the innovation stakes by overhauling the country’s patent system—and thereby create millions of new jobs in the process. The America Invents Act, the most sweeping reform of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) in over 200 years, was signed into law by President Barack Obama on September 16th.The sole reason countries have for granting patents is to promote innovation—in short, to create local jobs and national prosperity. Patents seek to do this by requiring the inventor to make prompt and full disclosure of the money-making idea in question, so others can see and benefit from it—either by devising a legitmate way around the patent or by buying a licence to use it. In exchange, the inventor is granted the monopoly right to exploit the idea for 20 years or so. The deal has worked well for centuries, creating wealth, jobs and economic growth in the process. Patents have fostered conditions for drug-makers to produce medicines that have improved people’s lot no end. Likewise, patents ...   
   WE ARE entering what some in the technology industry refer to as a post-PC era. This does not mean that the personal computer is about to disappear. But according to estimates from Gartner, a research firm, combined shipments of web-connected smartphones and tablet computers are likely to exceed those of desktop and laptop computers for the first time this year, putting PCs in the shade. According to Morgan Stanley, an investment bank, there could be 10 billion mobile devices in circulation by 2020. Many of these will use bite-size chunks of software known as “apps”, some 18 billion of which are likely to be downloaded this year. As mobile, web-connected devices become ubiquitous, the volume of data they produce will soar. Cisco, a technology company, reckons that by 2015 some 6.3 exabytes of mobile data will be flowing each month, or the equivalent of 63 billion copies of The Economist. Much of that will be in the form of videos like the one below.   
   ABRAHAM TAKURA leans over a jute sack and holds his Motorola smartphone in front of a white label, on which are printed a bit of text and a few black lines. It is not that Mr Takura has a penchant for dull photographs: the lines are a barcode, which he is scanning. His phone duly records important data and sends them to a server in the German town of Walldorf: this sack of shea nuts, belonging to Fati Karimu, from Chamera Fong, has been delivered to the warehouse in Janga.Janga, in northern Ghana, home to about 3,000 people, is reached by a spine-jarring 40-minute ride along an unmade, red-earth road. Water has to be obtained from the pump, but telecommunications are on tap. A red-and-white steel tower, the ubiquitous sign of Africa’s leap into the mobile-phone age, rises above the homes of mud and thatch, breeze-block and corrugated metal.Janga’s tower has been here for a few years at most. Its women have been gathering shea nuts from the bush for generations. It is hard, dangerous work: there are snakes in the grass and the nuts are collected after they fall. But they are an essential source of income. The nuts are dried and made into shea butter, of which most is used in confectionery and some in cosmetics. It is said to do wonders for dry skin.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Schumpeter                              Rubric:                                           The meaning of Walt Disney’s latest boardroom changes                                                AMONG the many voids left by the death of Steve Jobs on October 5th was an empty seat in the boardroom of Walt Disney, where he was the largest shareholder. Soon afterwards, Disney announced that Robert Iger, the media and theme-park giant’s chief executive since 2005, had signed a new five-year contract, at the end of which he will leave the firm. Next March Mr Iger will also become chairman of Disney’s board.  The timing may be linked to the death of Mr Jobs. With his shares likely to go on the market, and Disney’s performance having stalled again lately, there are rumours that a rival might try to buy the firm. Announcing Mr Iger’s new deal and departure date sent investors a reassuring message: there will be continuity at the top. And the board has ample time to plan for life after the esteemed Mr Iger, who is said to fancy a new career in politics.                In this sectionA painful eclipse  No limits, no ...   
   HOW could it possibly cost more for a government agency to hire a private consulting company with its own headquarters, executives, support staff, shareholders and so forth to prepare a bid for a project, compete for the contract, execute the project, compile reams of data proving what a great job it did on the project, and then spend the next six months lobbying the government to do a follow-on project and hire it again, than it would for the government agency to just do the dang job itself?I really can't imagine. But the folks at the Project on Government Oversight can. They even did a study. (H/t Brad Plumer.)POGO’s study analyzed the total compensation paid to federal and private sector employees, and annual billing rates for contractor employees across 35 occupational classifications covering over 550 service activities. Our findings were shocking—POGO estimates the government pays billions more annually in taxpayer dollars to hire contractors than it would to hire federal employees to perform comparable services. Specifically, POGO’s study shows that the federal government approves service contract billing rates—deemed fair and reasonable—that pay contractors 1.83 times more than the government pays federal employees in total compensation, and more than 2 times the total compensation paid in the private sector for comparable services.Read their ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           How to save the euro                              Fly Title:                                           Corporate governance                              Rubric:                                            How can you tell a good board of directors from a bad one?                              Location:                                           NEW YORK                      THE directors of Yahoo! were “so spooked by being cast as the worst board in the country” that they fired Carol Bartz as chief executive “to show that they’re not the doofuses that they are.” That was Ms Bartz’s typically blunt verdict, offered to Fortune after she was dismissed with a phone call by the internet firm’s chairman, Roy Bostock, on September 6th.  She would say that. Yet Ms Bartz’s criticisms of the board have been sympathetically received. Firing a chief executive by phone smacks of hasty, panicky decision-making. And Yahoo!’s board already had a poor reputation, having turned down an offer from Microsoft that valued the firm at several times what it is worth today.  It is not just Yahoo!’s board that is feeling the heat. The directors of HP, another stumbling Silicon Valley giant, have been accused of serial ...   
   Issue:                                           If Greece goes...                              Fly Title:                                           European corporate governance                                Rubric:                                           Corporate governance in continental Europe is improving rapidly                                Location:                                           PARIS                                Main image:                                           20110625_wbd001.jpg   
   BUSINESS people love to talk about corporate social responsibility. But how many of them are actually willing to sacrifice profit for principle? When pressed, most of them simply argue that they are doing good by doing well, which prompts the question of why they bother to talk about CSR in the first place. I was delighted to discover, in Michael Eisner's "Working Together: Why Great Parternships Succeed", that Ross Perot, the founder of Electronic Data Services and two-times presidential candidate, was an exception to this rule, a man who was willing to sacrifice a quick buck in pursuit of a deeply-held principle. In the late 1970s Arthur Blank and Bernie Marcus visited Mr Perot in Dallas to finalise plans for him to take a 70% share in what became Home Depot. Noticing that Mr Blank sported a moustache, Mr Perot said that he had a strict no-facial-hair policy. He made his investment conditional on the removal of the offending hair. Mr Blank refused and took their idea elsewhere. Mr Perot lost billions by turning down the deal, but nevertheless held up the wider principle that companies need to set an example of good personal grooming to the world.   
   Issue:                                           Angry America                              Fly Title:                                           Schumpeter                                Rubric:                                           The world knows less about what makes for good corporate governance than it likes to think                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           20101030_wbd000.jpg   
   Issue:                                           Losing Afghanistan                              Fly Title:                                           Corporate governance in America                                Rubric:                                           Financial reformers try to redefine what it is to be a shareholder                                Location:                                           New York                        NEW regulations are emerging from Congress in response to the meltdown in the financial industry. Yet their impact, likely to be felt by every public company in America, may weaken rather than strengthen corporate governance.  It was the glaring weaknesses exposed in the boards of Wall Street giants such as Citigroup and Lehman Brothers that prompted some in Congress to propose making it easier for shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors—something that had hitherto been costly and time-consuming. CalPERS, a big Californian pension fund, is said to have been recruiting a bench of candidates in expectation of a sharp increase in contested elections. Then something went wrong in the process by which two different reform bills passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate are likely to be reconciled.  Reformers have for years tried to make it easier for shareholders to nominate directors by securing readier access to ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Business.view                                Rubric:                                           Does good corporate governance pay? Studies give contradictory answers                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201018WBP501.jpg   
   Issue:                                           Earthly powers                              Fly Title:                                           Shareholders v stakeholders                                Rubric:                                           The economic crisis has revived the old debate about whether firms should focus most on their shareholders, their customers or their workers                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           201017wbd001.jpg   
   Issue:                                           Europe's engine                              Fly Title:                                           Executive pay in America                                Rubric:                                           Efforts to reform how bosses’ salaries are set are unlikely to work                                Location:                                           NEW YORK                         SPRING is in the air, bringing with it angry thoughts about executive pay. This year the economic downturn is adding extra emotion to the season’s familiar fury. Unions are, for example, outraged at the $21m paid in 2009 to Sam Palmisano, IBM’s boss, not least because his firm laid off 10,000 workers in America last year. A union that owns shares in Goldman Sachs is suing to stop it paying bonuses to its employees. It wants the investment bank’s senior managers to shell out personally for the $500m charitable donation it made last year, which the lawsuit, filed on March 8th, describes as “an apology for taking enormous bonuses”.   Some boards and bosses have made concessions to the public mood. Jeff Immelt, the boss of General Electric, declined to take the cash bonus he was due for the second year in a row. His basic salary has not gone up since 2005, although his total compensation for 2009 was still a healthy $10m, 6.5% more than in 2008. ...   
   Issue:                                           What's gone wrong in Washington?                              Fly Title:                                           Schumpeter                                Rubric:                                           Would giving long-term shareholders more clout improve corporate governance?                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           Illustration by Brett Ryder                      Illustration by Brett Ryder  THE spectacular collapse of so many big financial firms during the crisis of 2008 has provided new evidence for the belief that stockmarket capitalism is dangerously short-termist. After all, shareholders in publicly traded financial institutions cheered them on as they boosted their short-term profits and share prices by taking risky bets with enormous amounts of borrowed money. Those bets, it turns out, did terrible damage in the longer term, to the firms and their shareholders as well as to the economy as a whole. Shareholders can no longer with a straight face cite the efficient-market hypothesis as evidence that rising share prices are always evidence of better prospects, rather than of an unsustainable bubble.  If the stockmarket can get wildly out of whack in the short run, companies and investors ...   
   Issue:                                           Bubble warning                              Fly Title:                                           Novartis's bid for Alcon                                Rubric:                                           Minority shareholders in Swiss firms have fewer rights than they thought                                Location:                                           Berlin                        SWITZERLAND is one of the world’s oldest democracies. Yet in the corporate realm at least, as minority shareholders in Alcon—an American-listed but Swiss-based eyecare company—are discovering, some owners are more equal than others.   On January 4th Novartis, a drug company, agreed to buy a controlling 52% stake in Alcon for $180 a share in cash to add to its existing 25% stake. Nestlé, a food giant from which Novartis is buying the stake, is already spending some of the $28.1 billion in spoils. It agreed to buy Kraft’s American pizza business for $3.7 billion. This in turn gives Kraft cash for its hostile takeover bid for Cadbury, a British confectioner.   Alcon’s remaining shareholders are less than pleased, however. Under most countries’ takeover rules, all holders of the same class of stock must be offered the same amount of money for their shares. Yet in this case Novartis has offered to pay Alcon’s minority shareholders only $153 a share ...   
   Issue:                                           Toyota slips up                              Fly Title:                                           Corporate reform in America                                Rubric:                                           Business lobbyists complain that a regulatory tsunami is on its way. But some firms are embracing the proposed reforms                                Location:                                           WASHINGTON, DC                                Main image:                                           Ronald Grant Archive                      Ronald Grant Archive  “WHEN people hear the word regulation, they feel stifled, delayed, and many times they believe that government is being intrusive,” said Hilda Solis, America’s labour secretary, on December 7th as she unveiled plans for 90 new regulatory initiatives to improve the lot of workers. If you doubt her word, try mentioning regulation to the boss of an American company. Then stand back and wait for the inevitable explosion.  Stifled, delayed and intruded upon are the least of the complaints you hear from America’s bosses these days. Their list of grouses includes ever-increasing regulation, stricter corporate-governance standards and the threat of higher taxes in response to the ballooning deficit. This week the Environmental Protection Agency announced that it considered ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Business.view                                Rubric:                                           What directors of American firms should—and should not—worry about                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           BloombergMartin Lipton: the virtue of the board                      Martin Lipton: the virtue of the boardBloomberg  “NEVER before in the history of American business has the role of the corporate director been more important or more challenging.” This bold claim kicks off this year’s annual collection of “thoughts for boards of directors” penned by Martin Lipton, a legendary Wall Street lawyer, and two colleagues at his firm, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. They fear, above all, that the economic crisis has inspired a series of corporate-governance reforms that, contrary to their aims, will “impede the ability of boards to resist pressures for short-term gain and tie their hands at a time when the need for effective board leadership is particularly acute.”  It is tempting to dismiss any criticisms of corporate-governance reform that come from Mr Lipton. He is, after all, an inveterate defender of incumbent managers against all attempts to make them more accountable to shareholders. Heavens, the ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Business.view                                Rubric:                                           A glimmer of hope for corporate-governance reform                                Location:                                                                   AMERICA’S system of elections for the boards of companies has long been a sort of Potemkin village: impressive, until you lean on it. Yes, there is one share, one vote. But only candidates proposed by the incumbent board make it on to the ballot that the firm sends to shareholders. Other candidates can seek votes only by circulating “proxies” of their own to shareholders, at the candidates’ own expense. The cost of this is usually enough to deter them, allowing the official slate of directors to retain their lucrative boardroom sinecures uncontested—even if only a tiny proportion of shareholders actually vote for them.  Several efforts to make it easier for shareholders to nominate directors have been frustrated by lobbying from corporate turkeys keen to postpone Christmas for as long as they can. Earlier this month the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced yet another year’s delay before it again considers proposals to ease outsiders’ access to proxies. Earlier attempts to bring reforms failed in 2003 and 2007, again due to furious corporate lobbying.  Corporate ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Idea                                Rubric:                                           The debate over how companies are best governed is at least as old as companies themselves                                Location:                                                                   The debate over how companies are best governed is at least as old as companies themselves. That there is no one best system of governing them is suggested by the fact that the world’s greatest companies have grown up under a number of very different regimes: Toyota in Japan, Johnson & Johnson in the United States, Daimler-Benz in Germany and Marks and Spencer in the UK, for example.  The differences between the regimes fall into four main categories:  Accounting. Drawing up a company’s accounts and getting an outside auditor to verify them is essential. It enables investors to find out what managers are doing with their money. However, accounts prepared under different countries’ rules can produce very different results. Using British or American rules (which might be expected to be reasonably similar) can make a difference of as much as 50% to a company’s net profit. Even within a single country’s set of rules there is plenty of room for interpretation (and exaggeration). Any one accountant is unlikely to come up with exactly the same ...   
   Issue:                                           America's unjust sex laws                              Fly Title:                                           Germany's flawed corporate governance                                Rubric:                                           Why the leading citizens of corporate Germany are so scandal-prone                                Location:                                           Berlin                                Main image:                                           Illustration by David Simonds                      Illustration by David Simonds  THE streets of Germany’s main cities still throng with shoppers; no shops are shuttered. Much credit for that is due to the country’s famed industrial champions, which have been model corporate citizens throughout the recession, keeping employees on the payroll and investing for the long-term. Yet many of them are also remarkably scandal-prone. Big companies such as Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Bahn and Lidl have been caught spying on workers, journalists or board members. Siemens has confessed to bribing customers and MAN is being investigated for the same. At Volkswagen, a manager was caught paying off a member of its supervisory board. Schaeffler and Porsche are in trouble after launching murky, ill-conceived takeovers involving derivatives and mountains of debt. ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Corporate governance in banks                                Rubric:                                           Bank bosses on the straight and narrow                                Location:                                                                   HOW do you change bad behaviour without regulation heavy enough to kill both financial innovation and the City of London? Companies on both sides of the Atlantic are still smarting at the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, devised in America in 2002 after a bout of corporate monkey business. The British government’s response to banks’ misbehaviour leading up to the credit crisis has been to commission a review of their corporate governance from Sir David Walker, a one-time central banker and now an adviser to Morgan Stanley, an investment bank.  Sir Fred, who got awayAFP  Sir David’s first stab at it appeared on July 16th. He offers big banks, and other systemically important financial institutions, a route to running themselves better without lots of new rules. Chairmen and non-executive directors are to challenge chief executives and their boards far more often. Sharper questions might have dissuaded Fred Goodwin, then the chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), from the hubristic purchase of ABN AMRO, a Dutch bank, or prevented Eric Daniels, chief ...   
   Issue:                                           To the rescue: The trouble with Obama's plan                              Fly Title:                                           Economics focus                                Rubric:                                           The costs and benefits of “pyramid” business groups                                Location:                                                                           Main image:                                           Illustration by Jac Depczyk                      Illustration by Jac Depczyk  Correction to this article   LIKE a blot on corporate India’s copybook, the Satyam scandal is still spreading. Two auditors from PricewaterhouseCoopers are in police custody, where they are trying to explain why they signed off on the outsourcing company’s cooked books. The chief minister of Satyam’s home state is trading furious accusations of negligence and worse with his predecessor. And on February 6th the government revealed that its serious fraud office is investigating no fewer than 325 companies wrapped up in the scam perpetrated by Satyam’s founder, B. Ramalinga Raju, and at least one of his brothers.  In India, as in many emerging markets, companies rarely stand or fall alone. Tarun Khanna of Harvard Business School and Yishay Yafeh of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem report* that a third of Indian firms ...   
   Fly Title:                                                                           Rubric:                                           A look at noteworthy articles from the business journals                                Location:                                                                     Close, but no cigar  “How not to lose the top job”   By Marshall Goldsmith    For those in line for the CEO position—or any big promotion for that matter—this Harvard Business Review article makes sobering reading. Mr Goldsmith, an executive coach, warns how easy it is to fall at the final hurdle. Deception, double-dealing and dissembling are rife, especially among board members, peers, subordinates, customers and shareholders—any of who can trip you up. The cause of failure can be anything from the seemingly trivial—an embarrassing e-mail that goes astray—to a collapse in profits.  The hapless candidate is advised to avoid premature cockiness and to probe for a more accurate picture of his chances. Often it's the attitude of the outgoing CEO that matters most. As Henry Ford II remarked when booting out Lee Iacocca, “sometimes you just don't like somebody.”                Related itemsWhat's in the journals, December 2008Dec 17th 2008What's in the journals, November 2008Nov 26th 2008Related topicsBusiness  Companies  Corporate governance  India  Asia            Something of a ...   
   Issue:                                           The hundred years' war                              Fly Title:                                           Corporate governance                                Rubric:                                           Scandal hits India’s flagship industry                                Location:                                           DELHI                        SATYAM means “truth” in Sanskrit, an ancient Indian language. On January 7th Satyam Computer Services, one of the country’s biggest software and services companies, revealed some alarming truths about Indian capitalism, even in its spiffiest industry. The company’s founder and chairman, B. Ramalinga Raju, confessed to a $1.47 billion fraud on its balance sheet, which he and his brother, Satyam’s managing director, had disguised from the company’s board, senior managers and auditors for several years. “It was like riding a tiger, not knowing how to get off without being eaten,” Mr Raju wrote.  The tiger carried Mr Raju deep into the woods. Quarter after quarter, he inflated Satyam’s profits, even as operations expanded and costs grew. The company, which is listed on both the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Bombay Stock Exchange, now claims to have 53,000 employees, and customers in 66 countries, including 185 companies in the Fortune 500. In its books for the third ...   
   Fly Title:                                           Corporate governance                                Rubric:                                           Scandal hits Satyam, one of India's biggest software companies                                Location:                                           Dehli                                Main image:                                           AFP                      AFP  SATYAM means “truth” in Sanskrit, an ancient Indian language. On January 7th Satyam Computer Services, one of the country’s biggest software and services companies, revealed some alarming truths about Indian capitalism, even in its spiffiest industry. The company’s founder and chairman, B. Ramalinga Raju, confessed to a $1.47 billion fraud on its balance sheet, which he and his brother, Satyam’s managing director, had disguised from the company’s board, senior managers and auditors for several years. “It was like riding a tiger, not knowing how to get off without being eaten,” Mr Raju wrote.  The tiger carried Mr Raju deep into the woods. Quarter after quarter, he inflated Satyam’s profits, even as operations expanded and costs grew. The company, which is listed on both the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Bombay Stock Exchange, now claims to have 53,000 employees, and customers in 66 countries, including 185 companies in the Fortune 500. In its books ...   
   Issue:                                           What a way to run the world                              Fly Title:                                           Governance                                Rubric:                                           Richard Grasso’s court victory is a defeat for American business                                Location:                                                                   THE New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) thrived when Richard Grasso became its chief executive in 1995. In the throes of a bull market, its volumes soared and the pint-sized Mr Grasso was the star of the show. But after the bull market shuddered to a halt in March 2000, it became clear who had really thrived. In 2003 Mr Grasso was forced out amid general uproar over his $187.5m pay packet. When Eliot Spitzer used the courts to wrest the money off him, it looked as if New York’s attorney-general had struck a blow for good governance.  How times change. Mr Spitzer has quit public life, after some governance issues of his own. Another bull market has come and gone. And this week, thanks to the New York State Supreme Court, Mr Grasso got his money back.  Mr Spitzer’s case rested on the idea that New York’s laws prevent a non-profit-making outfit like the NYSE from paying charity workers like hedge-fund managers. There was just one problem: after Mr Spitzer brought the ...   
   Fly Title:                                           The Economist debate: Sustainability and corporate responsibility                                Rubric:                                                                           Location:                                           Alyssa A Farrell   
   Issue:                                           Recoil                              Fly Title:                                           Chief executives                                Rubric:                                           New research reveals the most popular routes into the executive suite                                Location:                                                                   Illustration by Claudio Munoz  MARKETING used to be the route to the chief executive's chair, but the world has changed. Now, says Monika Hamori, professor of human resources at Instituto de Empresa in Madrid, it is finance chiefs who are most likely to get the top job, though experience in operations—running parts of the company—is also essential. CFO Magazine (a sister publication of The Economist) found in 2005 that one-fifth of chief executives in America were former chief financial officers, almost double the share of a decade earlier. The importance of quarterly financial reporting, and closer scrutiny since the imposition of the Sarbanes-Oxley corporate-governance act, have put CFOs in the limelight—and given them the chance to shine.  Another factor in reaching the top is whether you stay with the company you joined as a youngster. Ms Hamori's research (with Peter Cappelli of the Wharton School in Philadelphia) looked at companies in the S&P 500 and the ...   
   ED MILIBAND, leader of the opposition Labour Party, gave a very bad speech about Britain's economic situation today. It was so bad, indeed so self-defeatingly bad, that (at the risk of sounding rather parochial and hard-hearted) it sparks wider questions about the political consequences in Britain should recession lurch into full-blown economic catastrophe.Speaking a few days ahead of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's autumn statement, Mr Miliband seized the chance to tell voters that Labour had been proved right about the government's austerity policies. We told you that the Conservative-led coalition was cutting spending too far and too fast, he said, and now we can see that "the biggest economic gamble in a generation has failed."Mr Miliband went into considerable detail. His claims are worth quoting at some length:The August 2010 Bloomberg speech given by Ed Balls, Labour’s Shadow Chancellor, has turned out to be extremely prescient...Seventeen months ago George Osborne delivered his Emergency Budget. He did so against the backdrop of an economy emerging from a recession caused by the global financial crisis. There was momentum in the recovery, with growth reaching 1.1% in the second quarter of 2010. Unemployment remained a major concern, but it had started to fall. There was a large budget deficit that had to be brought down and difficult decisions that had to be made. ...   
   The euro-zone crisis, as told through Economist coversIN MAY 2010 The Economist put Europe's debt crisis on its cover for the first time, accompanied by a decent filmic pun and an image of the Parthenon. Since then, the continent's financial woes have kept our cover designer busy conjuring up various ways to depict doom and despair. From waterfalls to plugholes to sieves, here are 13 of the best.    
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Angela Merkel and the euro                              Rubric:                                           As the euro totters, the world waits for the German chancellor to act. Will she?                              Location:                                           BERLIN                               Main image:                                           Is the lady for turning?                                    Is the lady for turning?            AS A schoolgirl, Angela Merkel spent an entire swimming lesson perched on a diving board. Only when the final bell sounded did she find the nerve to take the plunge. “I am not spontaneously courageous,” the German chancellor later said. “I am, I think, courageous at the right moment,” but “led too much by my head” to leap recklessly in. For Margaret Heckel, author of a book about Mrs Merkel, the story shows that “she goes to her limits and then overcomes them.” She has a “very fundamental confidence in her abilities.”  It is not widely shared. Mrs Merkel’s critics say she has reacted too little and too late to the euro crisis, which now threatens to ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The economy                              Rubric:                                           The growing troubles in the euro zone mean Britain is set for another recession                              Main image:                                           20111126_BRD001_0.jpg                                                PREPARE for some bad news. The prime minister, David Cameron, told an audience of business leaders on November 21st that shrinking the budget deficit was “proving harder than anyone envisaged.” His comments laid the ground for the chancellor, George Osborne, who makes his autumn statement on the economy and public finances on November 29th. The chancellor’s message is likely to be grim: a downgrade to official growth forecasts for next year and beyond seems certain. The coalition government’s hopes of eliminating the “structural” part of the deficit (the bit that cannot be blamed on temporary slack in the economy) and of capping public debt by the end of the current parliament are in serious doubt.  Bond markets are likely to be forgiving, given the scale of troubles elsewhere. ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The euro                              Rubric:                                           The crisis in the euro area is turning into a panic and dragging the zone into recession. The risk that the currency disintegrates within weeks is alarmingly high                              Main image:                                           20111126_BBD001_0.jpg                                                FIRST Greece; then Ireland and Portugal; then Italy and Spain. Month by month, the crisis in the euro area has crept from the vulnerable periphery of the currency zone towards its core, helped by denial, misdiagnosis and procrastination by the euro-zone’s policymakers. Recently Belgian and French government bonds have been in the financial markets’ bad books. Investors are even sniffy about German bonds: an auction of ten-year Bunds on November 23rd shifted only €3.6 billion-worth ($4.8 billion) of the €6 billion-worth on offer.  Worse, there are signs that the euro zone’s economy is heading for recession, if it is not there already. Industrial orders in the euro zone fell by 6.4% in September, the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The euro zone                              Rubric:                                           Unless Germany and the ECB move quickly, the single currency’s collapse is looming                              Main image:                                           20111126_LDP001_0.jpg                                                EVEN as the euro zone hurtles towards a crash, most people are assuming that, in the end, European leaders will do whatever it takes to save the single currency. That is because the consequences of the euro’s destruction are so catastrophic that no sensible policymaker could stand by and let it happen.  A euro break-up would cause a global bust worse even than the one in 2008-09. The world’s most financially integrated region would be ripped apart by defaults, bank failures and the imposition of capital controls (see article). The euro zone could shatter into different pieces, or a large block in the north and a fragmented south. Amid the recriminations and broken treaties after the failure of the European Union’s biggest economic project, wild currency swings between those ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Letters                      Letters are welcome via e-mail to letters@economist.com  At the heart of Europe                                           Related topicsBusiness  Economics  Globalisation  Germany  Europe          SIR – It is not Europe but Britain that needs to wake up to the euro crisis (Special report on Europe and its currency, November 12th). Britain is sleepwalking into irrelevance. Britain’s national interest in relation to Europe and the wider world would be better served if it fought to create a reformed euro-currency block, and then joined it. In fact, you cannot do the one without committing to the other. Protecting London’s future as a financial centre; reforming the common agricultural policy; ensuring that Britain is at the table for future big European technology projects; broking a solution to the current crisis that might actually work; implementing the Lisbon agenda—the list of important issues for Britain goes on.  Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy finally told the Greeks the hard truth: you can’t have the benefits without contributing to the main. It is in Britain’s ...   
   This post has been updated.THE bad news out of Europe is coming fast and thick now. Markets were still digesting news of Spain's terrible bond auction yesterday, in which the yield on its 3-month debt more than doubled, from 2.3% to over 5%. That was but an appetizer, however; in an auction of 10-year debt today, Germany failed to place some 40% of the issuance. The lack of appetite for German debt has come as a shock to many, and the language being used to describe matters is increasingly apocalyptic. "It is a complete and utter disaster", Reuters has one strategist saying. On the secondary market, German bond yields have finally joined those of its neighbours on their upward march. The German 10-year yield is up sharply today (update: this initially read that the 10-year yield was up 7 percentage points on the day; in fact it was up 7%), and back above 2%. It still has a way to go to catch France and Austria (approaching 4%), Belgium (over 5%), and Spain and Italy (back near 7%).Trouble at big European banks is growing; the euro-zone banking system is increasingly reliant on the European Central Bank for funding. The prospect of bank failures is a troubling one given the fiscal strain on European sovereigns; no one wants to find itself in Ireland's position, squarely in bond vigilantes' crosshairs having assumed the obligations of sinking banks. Uncontrolled ...   
   THE short-term outlook for the world economy seems to hinge on whether a resolution to Europe's debt crisis can be found. A resolution, in turn, will be difficult to come by if the euro zone falls back into recession. If output is shrinking and unemployment rising, then austerity measures are likely to make economic conditions worse while raising very little new revenue. The euro zone is likely to fall ever deeper into a hole.That's an unnerving possibility given the outlook for the euro-zone economy. Growth in the fourth quarter is likely to be contractionary, according to an analysis of recent data points by Now-Casting, which publishes "real-time" economic forecasts. You can see the information that goes into their forecast in the interactive chart below. A negative fourth quarter has been a real possibility since July, but as recently as early October the economy appeared to be moderating. Since then, the outlook has quickly deteriorated thanks, mostly, to bad news from the core. Falling industrial orders in Germany is among the most worrisome signs, as are big declines in manufacturing purchasing manager's indexes, particularly a big drop in Italy.About this chart: The chart shows an evolving prediction—or "now-cast"—of quarter-on-quarter GDP growth. Now-casts are calculated by a statistical model which draws on a wide range of inputs, including both hard and soft ...   
   THINGS need to get worse before they can get better. That is the view of many commentators on the euro zone crisis, who think that only when complete catastrophe seems imminent, will European political leaders take the necessary action. (They don't always agree on what that action might be but it is usually some combination of unlimited bond purchases by the European Central Bank and moves towards fiscal union.)Richard McGuire, the fixed income strategist at Rabobank, is very much in that camp. He argues that most of the daily headlines, such as changes in Greek and Italian governments, don't matter. The fundamental problem is one currency and 17 separate fiscal authorities; until that situation is resolved, there will be no solution. Austerity policies won't work.But Mr McGuire has also figured out what the next stage of the crisis will mean for investors. Up until now, the obvious strategy has been to buy German government bonds and sell just about everything else, on the grounds that, if the euro zone does break up, you want your money to be in Deutsche Marks. But if European politicians do unveil a rescue plan, that will either mean the core countries assuming the burden of eurozone debt, or it will mean that long-term inflation risks will have risen.At that stage, investors will pile out of long-term German government debt and into the short-term debt of countries like ...   
   IT HAS become the worst fear of politicians in America and Europe: after the immediate crisis passes, the developed world will settle into a lost decade (or more) of low growth and deflation, just like Japan. Japan is used as a cautionary tale of ineffective and/or inept economic policy, which failed to revive its economy after a bad recession. But as my colleague points out and as an article from our print edition this week suggests, there’s not much more that short-term fiscal and monetary policy could have done. A large share of Japan’s woes can be blamed on its aging population. In aggregate, Japan’s economy grew at half the pace of America’s between 2001 and 2010. Yet if judged by growth in GDP per person over the same period, then Japan has outperformed America and the euro zone (see chart 1). In part this is because its population has shrunk whereas America’s population has increased.Though growth in labour productivity fell slightly short of America’s from 2000 to 2008, total factor productivity, a measure of how a country uses capital and labour, grew faster, according to the Tokyo-based Asian Productivity Organisation. Japan’s unemployment rate is higher than in 2000, yet it remains about half the level of America and Europe. Anemic Japanese growth rates resulted from having fewer young, productive workers, and from the redirection of an increasing share of ...   
   ON NOVEMBER 21st Hungary formally asked the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for financial support, for the second time in three years. The decision to return to the global lender of last resort appears to signal that the government has abandoned its 18-month experiment in what it has variously called a “struggle for economic independence” (when addressing certain domestic audiences) or, before a broader public, “unorthodox economic policy”.  György Matolcsy, the finance minister, told Parliament that in returning to the IMF, the country was seeking a “safety net” utterly unlike the standby loan Hungary walked away from last spring. “The situation is completely different,” he said, “because we are starting discussions about a financial safety net from which we don’t want to draw down a single penny.” That suggested he was seeking a loan without too many conditions attached. However, such favourable terms may not be forthcoming. The IMF offers loans with few strings attached to countries with sound finances that are in temporary difficulties. But few see Hungary’s troubles in such a benign light.  At its heart, Mr Matolcsy’s unorthodox economic policy was a gamble that the government could stimulate domestic and export demand enough to restore economic growth before the resulting deficits caught up with it. When Hungary walked away from the IMF in spring 2010, it was because ...   
   ANOTHER Monday, and the crisis in Europe continues to build. Euro-zone governments continue to tumble; Spain forcefully ejected its Socialist government on Sunday. Its recent rule coincided with economic collapse, rising unemployment, and round after round of austerity, as the government sought to get ahead of the debt crisis. The new government's large majority will give it more room to manage an unmanageable crisis. Spanish yields are rising today, along with those of Italy. The crisis is beyond the power of individual governments to solve on their own; coordination is key.Which makes one piece of news out of Brussels today seem at least somewhat auspicious. The European Commission has put together a white paper, to be released this week, proposing the creation of euro bonds. It appears that three different options are discussed, moving along the spectrum of shared risk. In those least ambitious version, the combined governments of the euro zone would provide some guarantee for the newly issued bonds of national governments. In the most ambitious scheme, the euro zone would approve individual budgets, which would be financed through euro bonds. The paper is best understood as just another step forward in the long process of tighter fiscal integration within the euro zone. The problem, of course, is that Europe wouldn't appear to have that much time to put together ...   
   ANOTHER bad day for the markets. Investors seem to have taken little heart from the sweeping victory of the Popular Party in Spain, focusing instead on the failure of the US super-committee to agree on a deal and rather gloomy statement on the global economy from Chinese vice premier Wang Qishan.In the euro zone, investors may be suffering from what Lombard Street Research neatly describes as "crisis solution fatigue". An FT story suggested a plan for eurobonds may be issued this week; last week, the market was pinning its hopes on the ECB and the IMF and it was long ago that the European Financial Stability Facility was the rescue vehicle of choice.The idea behind eurobonds is to allow the weaker countries to benefit from the financial strength of the likes of Germany and the Netherlands. After all, at the aggregate level, eurozone government indebtedness is no worse than that of the US. But the quid pro quo for such a deal is some kind of central control over the fiscal policies of euro zone governments.As Lombard remarkswe remain a long way from any kind of comprehensive solution to Europe’s crisis. To start, the most draconian form of Eurobond - probably the one that would appeal most to the Germans who have to fund it, will face stiff opposition everywhere else. Many countries will oppose the loss of sovereignty this scheme seeks to impose on them. Sure, there are ...   
   THE theory behind the supercommittee was that it would be a superconducting committee, eliminating the frictions caused by hundreds of clashing representatives in the House and Senate and zooming everyone straight along into a $1.2 trillion deficit-reduction agreement. Instead, it seems to have become a supercolliding committee, focusing the two parties down into a narrower space so that the impact blasts everything into tiny subatomic particles.The two sides are now close to conceding that the effort has failed, largely due to a fundamental disagreement over the question of whether rich people should pay more in taxes. The Republicans' latest full-scale plan would've raised the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 67, cut Social Security benefits, and cut income taxes for all households. Under the plan, the top marginal tax rate would fall from 35% to 28%. According to the New York Times, to make up for the tax cuts, "Republicans would curb $3.5 trillion dollars’ worth of tax breaks, items like credits and exemptions for retirement savings, child care and dependents. (The plan does not specify which ones would be cut.)"That last sentence is priceless. Meanwhile the Republicans made a scaled-down last-ditch offer on Friday that only comes up with $643 billion in deficit reduction, thus leading to a presumed $557 billion in "trigger" cuts balanced between defence and ...   
   IN MY print column this week I look at the political implications of Britain's rising youth unemployment:“WE are all in this together,” promises David Cameron’s government,  as it tries to fix shattered public finances and set Britain on a path  of sustainable growth. It matters that voters should believe this. Not because the claim  will soothe those suffering most from spending cuts or lost employment.  Instead, a sense of fairness is vital to the broad mass of voters who  keep their jobs in even nasty recessions, and whose households will  survive this crisis. Fairness gives the majority permission to support  policies needed to fix the mess, but which will impose real pain on  some.That is why it spelled danger for the government when new figures  were released on November 16th, showing that youth unemployment had  crossed the one million mark: its highest level in a generation. Several  caveats surround that number. Youth unemployment has been rising in  Britain since before the credit crunch. Within the headline total for  jobless 16- to 24-year-olds, more than a quarter are students looking  for part-time work. Britain’s youth unemployment rate is 21.9%—far below  countries like Spain. The overall unemployment rate of 8.3% looks  better because companies are hunkering down and retaining staff in the  hope of a recovery. This happens when economies slump: adults are ...   
   THE DAILY Mail carries a cartoon of Angela Merkel this morning sporting a Hitler moustache, jackboots, riding breeches and doing the Nazi salute. It is all a terrific joke, apparently, a parody of the Mel Brooks comedy "Springtime for Hitler" (adapted by the Mail to add such chortling touches as a "Greek President Stavros" character, David Cameron as Neville Chamberlain and Nick Clegg as a Hitler youth). This follows columns by the Mail's chief political thinker, Simon Heffer, accusing Germany of trying to found a "Fourth Reich." Over at ConservativeHome, a website not known for slavish pro-Europeanism, a sighing Tim Montgomerie asks: "Can we talk about Germany without resorting to WWII imagery?"I suspect that is another of John Rentoul's "Questions to which the answer is no." For what it is worth, I idly wonder whether some deep-seated psychological complex is playing out at Northcliffe House, Kensington headquarters of the Mail empire. Perhaps the tabloid feels bound to denounce the Fourth Reich because—for much of the 1930s—it so enthusiastically supported the Third Reich? Who can forget the July 1933 "Youth Triumphant" leader in praise of Nazism by the paper's owner Lord Rothermere, informing British readers that before Herr Hitler took over, "Israelites of international attachments were insinuating themselves into key positions in the German administrative machine"? Or ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Closing the gap                              Fly Title:                                           Female labour markets                              Rubric:                                           Men and women do different jobs for different pay                              Main image:                                           A woman’s place                                    A woman’s place            IN 1964 LADYBIRD BOOKS, a British publishing company, launched a series of small picture books to help young children learn to read. They featured Peter and Jane, their dog, their house, their toys and the rest of their little world. Their dad went out to work and their mum stayed at home and looked after Peter and Jane. By the late 1970s, after a couple of updates, their world had changed slightly: dad did more things around the house and Jane was wearing jeans rather than skirts. But she still spent a lot of her time at home playing with her doll or helping mum. Peter preferred to be out and about with dad.  The books are still available, but their charm is now of the vintage variety. When they were first published, families in most industrial countries were just like Peter’s and Jane’s. In ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Closing the gap                              Rubric:                                           Women have made huge progress in the workplace, but still get lower pay and far fewer top jobs than men. Barbara Beck asks why                              Main image:                                           20111126_SRP018_0.jpg                                                WHEN HILDA SOLIS was at high school, a male career adviser told her mother that the girl was not college material; she should consider becoming a secretary. Hilda was furious. One of seven children born to working-class immigrant parents, she had high ambitions. She did go to college, became a lawmaker in California and is now secretary of labour, the first Latina to hold a cabinet post in America’s federal government.  On Tarja Halonen’s first day at work in the legal department of a trade union she answered the phone to a man who, hearing a female voice, asked to speak to one of the lawyers. She informed him that he was speaking to one. Things got better after that. Following her stint as a lawyer she served in Finland’s parliament for over 20 years. Since 2000 she has been the country’s president, the first female in the job.     ...   
   THE leaders of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) gather for their 19th summit on the Indonesian island of Bali this week. It seems to be a popular club now; any country with even a remote interest in the Asia-Pacific region wants to join, or at least sit in. A bewildering array of what they like to call “ASEAN-centric” summits and organisations have been created to accommodate the newcomers, from India to New Zealand, from China to Russia.   Thus a modern ASEAN summit has become a series of summits and bilateral meetings, scheduled for consecutive days. The climax this year will be the appearance of President Barack Obama himself to signal America’s official accession to the East Asia Summit, a relatively new grouping of the ASEAN-ten, plus eight others. More than ever, it all heralds a feeling that this really will be the Asian century. Mr Obama himself said it again again, Wednesday. However, the ASEAN agenda this year will focus not so much on proud New Asia, but probably more on floundering Old Europe. As at the G20 meeting in France recently, the euro crisis has forced its way onto the agenda. The ASEAN-related economic discussions, in particular, could well focus on what the Asian-Pacific economies can do to avoid contagion from the epidemic spreading across Europe. The euro crisis has also been prompting some of the globetrotters in Bali to ...   
   MY COLLEAGUE writes that the European Central Bank's bond-market tactics—choosing to intervene in markets on some occasions and not on others—are proving useful:It is understandable that the ECB does not want to back countries like Italy in an unlimited way because there is no reason to trust that any one country won’t free-ride on ECB liquidity—a risk that other central banks don't face. Critics of the ECB have to reconcile their view with the fact that market pressure led to some very important changes and reforms that political pressure could not accomplish.The Peterson Institute's Jacob Funk Kirkegaard expresses a similar view:[O]nly after Italian 10-year interest rates went past the 7 percent “nuclear threshold” did financial demands bring about a new government in Rome.1 Thus has “regime change” installing new technocratic-led governments occurred in two democratic states, resulting from financial market pressure unchecked by the ECB...It is now clear that the ECB under the new presidency of Mario Draghi, the former governor of the Bank of Italy, has been vindicated in its strategy of refusing to defend Italian bond spreads around the 400–450 basis points, thereby forcing Italy to implement the reforms the central bank sought in August. In the end, it was the Italian political class that blinked first in this latest game of chicken and pushed Berlusconi out.If there ...   
   SPAIN paid almost 7% for 10-year money in a bond auction today, well above the level prevailing in the secondary market (6.43% last night, according to the FT). That gap may reflect the impact of ECB buying (the bank only buys in the secondary market). The sharp rise in yields may reflect the bad economic news (Spain's GDP stagnated in the third quarter and is now expected to grow just 0.8% next year) but it may also reflect uncertainty ahead of Sunday's election, given that the likely PM, Mariano Rajoy, has been rather vague about his programme.You might think that high yields in the peripheral euro zone countries would attract bargain hunters but it doesn't seem to be the case. Cesar Perez of JP Morgan Private bank (himself a Spaniard) gave me a clue earlier this week; fund managers he talked to were unwilling to buy peripheral bonds of yields or 7-8% but they would buy at 4-5% The reason for this paradox is that, at yields of 7-8%, the finances of Spain and Italy look unsustainable (the same would be true of most developed countries). A fall in yields to 4-5% would, in contrast, be a sign that the crisis was over and an indication that both countries could get their fiscal houses in order.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Japan’s economy                              Rubric:                                           Japan’s economy works better than pessimists think—at least for the elderly                              Location:                                           TOKYO                               Main image:                                           The doctor says my structural pessimism is getting better                                    The doctor says my structural pessimism is getting better            THE Japanese say they suffer from an economic disease called “structural pessimism”. Overseas too, there is a tendency to see Japan as a harbinger of all that is doomed in the economies of the euro zone and America—even though figures released on November 14th show its economy grew by an annualised 6% in the third quarter, rebounding quickly from the March tsunami and nuclear disaster.  Look dispassionately at Japan’s economic performance over the past ten years, though, and “the second lost decade”, if not the first, is a misnomer. Much of what tarnishes Japan’s image is the result of demography—more ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Bagehot                              Rubric:                                           Britain’s most promising reforms may be derailed unless jobs return, soon                              Main image:                                           20111119_BRD000_0.jpg                                                “WE are all in this together,” promises David Cameron’s government, as it tries to fix shattered public finances and set Britain on a path of sustainable growth.  It matters that voters should believe this. Not because the claim will soothe those suffering most from spending cuts or lost employment. Instead, a sense of fairness is vital to the broad mass of voters who keep their jobs in even nasty recessions, and whose households will survive this crisis. Fairness gives the majority permission to support policies needed to fix the mess, but which will impose real pain on some.                In this sectionThe fire next time  Sober London  He says, she says  Please sir, I want a visa  Road rage  Green and pleasant island  Revenge of the Sex Pistols  Follow my leader  »Recessions and the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Charlemagne                              Rubric:                                           The German chancellor’s actions fall short of her rhetoric about political union                              Main image:                                           20111119_EUD000_0.jpg                                                ANGELA MERKEL, the German chancellor, did her best to revive Germany’s European spirit this week. At the congress of her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Leipzig, she spoke of past wars and of modern Europe’s role in building peace. She hailed her predecessors, Konrad Adenauer and Helmut Kohl, for uniting Europe and Germany. And she appealed to self-interest: Germans’ prosperity depended on Europe’s well-being. Now that Europe faced its “darkest hour since the second world war”, it was time to push for more integration to save the euro. “The task of our generation is to complete economic and monetary union, and build political union in Europe, step by step.” The rebirth of European federalism in Germany? Not quite.  Mrs Merkel’s rhetoric was oddly empty and detached from ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Shale gas                              Rubric:                                           People should worry less about fracking, and more about carbon                              Main image:                                           20111126_LDD001_0.jpg                                                AT A recent shindig in London of the shale-gas industry, energy firms gave a rosy view of the fuel’s prospects in Europe. Like America, Europe has vast beds of shale rock, in which innumerable bubbles of natural gas are trapped. By cannoning water, sand and chemicals at them, a process known as hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking”, the bubbles can be released. This, the firms said, could bring Europe the same bonanza of cheap gas and new jobs in the industry that America is now enjoying (see article). It would also lessen Europe’s irksome dependence on Russian gas.  Outside the venue, meanwhile, protesters chanted, “Flaming water from our tap, we don’t want this fracking crap.” They referred to fears that fracking can cause contamination of aquifers by the methane and naturally occurring radioactive ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Shale gas in Europe and America                              Rubric:                                           Europe will have trouble replicating America’s shale-gas bonanza                              Main image:                                           20111126_WBD001_0.jpg                                                SHALE gas has turned the American energy market on its head. Production has soared twelvefold since 2000, to 4.9 trillion cubic feet, or a quarter of the country’s total gas output. By 2035 the proportion could rise to half. As the shale gas flows, prices have come crashing down. Not long ago, America depended on imports of liquefied natural gas. Now it is likely to become a gas exporter. These benefits have not gone unnoticed in Europe.  The old continent has nearly as much technically recoverable shale gas (natural gas trapped in shale formations) as America. Europe’s reserves are 639 trillion cubic feet, compared with America’s 862, according to America’s Energy Information Administration, a government agency. But technically recoverable does not mean economically ...   
   CLIMATE sceptics are jubilant. In a reprise of the run-up to the Copenhagen climate-change summit in 2009, a fresh batch of possibly compromising e-mails has been released on the eve of the latest round of UN climate talks in Durban, South Africa. "All your favorite Climategate characters are here," gloats one, "once again caught red-handed in a series of emails exaggerating the extent of Anthropogenic Global Warming, while privately admitting to one another that the evidence is nowhere near as a strong as they'd like it to be."The latest hacked snippets from the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit resemble the earlier ones. They apparently discuss not putting in too much "optimistic stuff" about the extent of man-made global warming. One e-mail appears to show the government's interest in a strong line on climate change.The implicated scientists insist that the comments have been pulled out of context and, in fact, are completely benign. Andrew Watson, from the University of East Anglia, sums up the general feeling when he says that these selective quotes show that climate scientists are "a diverse, sometimes contradictory" bunch, with assorted motives. "Welcome to the human race!" he says.  By being sceptical, argumentative and critical of themselves and each other, he continues, they are simply applying the scientific method. In doing ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Climate change                              Rubric:                                           The climate may not be as sensitive to carbon dioxide as previously believed                      CLIMATE science is famously complicated, but one useful number to keep in mind is “climate sensitivity”. This measures the amount of warming that can eventually be expected to follow a doubling in the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in its most recent summary of the science behind its predictions, published in 2007, estimated that, in present conditions, a doubling of CO2 would cause warming of about 3°C, with uncertainty of about a degree and a half in either direction. But it also says there is a small probability that the true number is much higher. Some recent studies have suggested that it could be as high as 10°C.  If that were true, disaster beckons. But a paper published in this week’s Science, by Andreas Schmittner of Oregon State University, suggests it is not. In Dr Schmittner’s analysis, the climate is less sensitive to carbon ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Tar sands and the environment                              Rubric:                                           Once again, Barack Obama seems to have found a way to annoy everyone                              Location:                                           WASHINGTON, DC                               Main image:                                           20111119_USP002_0.jpg                                                IF YOU can’t think of anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all. That, more or less, seems to have been the philosophy behind the State Department’s decision, after careful consideration of the pros and cons of a proposed oil pipeline from Canada to Texas, to make no decisions until after next year’s presidential elections. Thus Barack Obama can face the voters without having passed judgment on a project that had prompted a showdown between the business lobby and environmentalists.  Businesses and the unions like the proposed Keystone XL pipeline because it would generate orders and jobs—20,000 of them, says TransCanada, the firm behind the scheme. Environmentalists dislike ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Natural gas in Oklahoma                              Rubric:                                           The rise of shale gas continues                              Location:                                           OKLAHOMA CITY                               Main image:                                           Cleaner than it looks                                    Cleaner than it looks            A PRAIRIE wind whips the flags that fly from a Chesapeake Energy rig near Kingfisher, Oklahoma, but the noise of the drill drowns out the weather. A clutch of roughnecks, smudged with dirt and tattoos, are coring the earth, bringing up a little slice from the shale formation below. If the tests prove promising, the well will be hydraulically fractured or “fracked”.  That process is transforming the natural-gas industry. Ten years ago virtually all of America’s natural-gas production came from traditional gas or oil wells reached by vertical drills. But companies were learning how to drill horizontal wells and how to use high-pressure water to break up the shale formations to release the gas inside. Such ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           American highways                              Rubric:                                           A combination of less driving and more fuel-efficient vehicles is imperilling America’s highway system                              Location:                                           ATLANTA                       AMERICANS pay a federal fuel tax of 18.4 cents per gallon. That amount was set in 1993, when the average new passenger car on American roads got 28.4 miles per gallon (mpg), and the best-selling American car got 18mpg in the city and 27 on highways. In 2010 the average new passenger car got 33.7mpg. The best-selling car got 22mpg in the city and 33 on highways.                            And just as cars are growing more fuel-efficient, Americans are driving less. In 2010 they drove just under three trillion miles—less than they did in 2006. While better fuel-efficiency is good news for Americans’ wallets and less driving good for the country’s air, for its highways and mass-transit systems, it is something of a disaster.                In this sectionCrying wolf  Keystone cop-out  We will frack ...   
   Three weeks ago the government scrapped plans to build the country’s first carbon capture and storage (CCS) facility at Longannet power station in Fife in Scotland. That was a blow in the fight against climate change: if carbon dioxide can be stripped out of power plant emissions and other factories and stored safely underground, fossil fuels could be used without such damage to the planet. The government has promised to pay £1 billion for a pilot project. Since the Longannet work was going to cost more to build than that, it was abandoned.Even as that project was being ditched, government officials were quietly murmuring about a proposal for CCS at a gas-fired power station at Petershead, Aberdeenshire. Sure enough, a few weeks on another piece of good news has dribbled out: SSE, which runs the Petershead plant, has teamed up with Shell on the project it is proposing. SSE had already applied for European funding for CCS at Petershead. But the tie-up with the oil and gas major is new.  It’s certainly a good idea. This should give SSE extra cash to help fund a detailed engineering design. As importantly, it means that, if the project goes ahead, the gas will be transported to the Shell-operated Goldeneye gas field in the North Sea. The idea is to use existing infrastructure as far as possible. Shell is clearly keen to get involved in CCS — it was also a partner of ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           That’s all, folks                              Fly Title:                                           Schumpeter                              Rubric:                                           Despite governments’ failure to put a price on carbon, more businesses see profits in greenery                              Main image:                                           20111112_WBD000_0.jpg                                                SHORTLY before the 2009 UN climate summit in Copenhagen, many companies got into green. The summit was expected to lead to new regulations restricting greenhouse-gas emissions. Dozens of chief executives came to see history being made and to be seen on the right side of it. But Copenhagen was a flop. Most firms turned their thoughts elsewhere. Only four bosses showed up at the next annual climate meet, in Cancún. Few are expected at this year’s bash, which begins in Durban on November 28th.  Alas, that represents a realistic assessment of the Durban summit’s chances of delivering anything like the long-term certainty that businesses crave. Of 300 bosses of big global firms recently quizzed by Ernst & Young, 83% said they wanted to see a legally binding multilateral ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Greece’s woes                              Fly Title:                                           Climate finance                              Rubric:                                           Who will foot the bill for green development in poor countries?                              Main image:                                           Sunshine and leverage                                    Sunshine and leverage            AMID the wreckage of the 2009 Copenhagen climate summit, an agreement that rich countries would, by 2020, furnish developing ones with $100 billion a year to help them mitigate and adapt to global warming looked like a rare achievement. This commitment will also be a big talking point at the next annual UN summit, due to start in Durban on November 28th. With almost no hope of a big new pact, many expect progress on the formation of a global Green Climate Fund to be one of its few successes. Yet there is huge uncertainty about how developed countries will deliver on their promise, including what role the fund will play.                                          In this sectionGreece lightning  Two tiers, too complex  The Swiss diet  Pulling for the home team  Correction: Europe's ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Europe’s rescue plan                              Fly Title:                                           Clean energy in California                              Rubric:                                           As in so much else, the Golden State’s energy plans look distinctly un-American                              Location:                                           Los Angeles                              Main image:                                           Happily soaking up solar                                    Happily soaking up solar            JERRY BROWN started talking about solar power in the 1970s, when he was California’s governor for the first time. He was lampooned for it, but the vision gradually became attractive in a state that is naturally sunny and, especially along the coastline, cares about the environment. So in 2006, under a Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, California set a goal to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. This year Mr Brown, governor once again, signed the last bits of that goal into law. And this month the state’s air-quality regulators unanimously voted to adopt its most controversial but crucial component: a cap-and-trade ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Air-quality regulations                              Rubric:                                           New rules on power-plant emissions invite a host of lawsuits                              Location:                                           ATLANTA                               Main image:                                           The air, the air is everywhere                                    The air, the air is everywhere            THERE is nothing like a broad new federal regulation to make Jarndyce and Jarndyce seem like a simple dispute over a traffic ticket. As of October 11th no fewer than 36 separate entities—states, cities, power companies, trade associations—had petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit to review or stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR). Eight entities have intervened on the EPA’s behalf. More could jump into the fray in the next month.  The rule at the centre of this scrum requires power plants in 28 states—everything from Texas eastwards, except Delaware and the six New England ...   
   UK Only Article:                       UK article only                              Issue:                                           Europe’s rescue plan                              Fly Title:                                           Tackling climate change                              Rubric:                                           Carbon capture remains a good idea, but not much more                              Main image:                                           20111029_BRP001_0.jpg                                                IN the push to tackle climate change, most attention is devoted to ditching fossil fuels for low-carbon power sources. But the fight has another prong: stripping carbon dioxide out of the smokestacks of power plants and other factories and storing it safely underground. The distinct parts of this process, known as carbon capture and storage (CCS), are already in operation. But no one has yet joined them together on an industrial scale. So it was a blow when the government recently scrapped plans to build the country’s first CCS unit at the Longannet coal-fired power station in Scotland, claiming it cost too much.  The prospect is appealing. In Britain, 72% of electricity is generated from gas and coal; China and America are even more reliant on fossil fuels. Finding a way to remove 90% of the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Europe’s rescue plan                              Fly Title:                                           China’s environment                              Rubric:                                           China promises a cap-and-trade system for pollution                              Main image:                                           20111029_WBP008_0.jpg                                                GIVEN that China is the world’s biggest carbon emitter, it is fair to be sceptical of its claims to greenery. Yet the emerging giant is already the world’s biggest manufacturer of such green technologies as compact-fluorescent bulbs and solar panels. And it aspires to become an environmental-policy leader too.  The most recent five-year plan emphasised improvements in energy efficiency and laid out a vision for cleaning the air. Now the powerful State Council has formally announced that it will use tools favoured by market-minded economists: emissions-trading systems, perhaps including one for carbon dioxide, and green taxes. The details are not yet public, but this sounds important. It follows various regional experiments with emissions-trading and a resources tax (which affects petroleum but not ...   
   IN SEPTEMBER, Cuadrilla Resources, the first company to drill for shale gas in Britain, estimated that 200 trillion cubic feet of gas lie in an area of Lancashire near Blackpool, in northwest England. On the basis of two well points in the area, it predicted that there were nearly 40 times the previous projections of all of Britain’s shale resources. It is likely that, even if accurate, only a small proportion of such reserves might actually be recoverable. So far, so good. But there was a problem. In May, the company had to stop drilling because two tiny tremors were recorded in the region. These were so small—2.3 and 1.5 magnitude—that they would barely have been felt. Nonetheless, exploration was halted over concerns that the seismic activity had been caused by deep drilling and hydraulic fracturing or “fracking”, the process by which huge volumes of water are blasted through rock at high pressure in order to extract the gas. The company commissioned a report by a team of independent seismic experts. That report, Geomechanical Study of Bowland Shale Seismicity, came out today, and found that it was “highly probable” that Cuadrilla’s activity did cause the shocks. It reckons they were caused by an “unusual combination of geology at the well site coupled with the pressure exerted by fracking”. Mike Stephenson of the British Geological Survey says he is not surprised at the ...   
   GIVEN the broad scientific consensus that climate change is happening, based on data showing that climate change is happening, climate scepticism must be predicated on a belief that the data is flawed. The paper has a look at climate data to date and the methodological limitations that have given rise to what Richard Muller, an astrophysicist, characterise as "legitimate scepticism". As the article explains, Dr Muller, being somewhat sceptical himself in the wake of the 2009 "Climategate" scandal, convened the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature group to examine the data and existing analyses using a methodology designed to incorporate some of the concerns of the legitimate sceptics. On October 20th, the group released four papers that corroborate the climate consensus: "The group estimates that over the past 50 years the land surface warmed by 0.911°C: a mere 2% less than NOAA’s estimate."The corroboration should comfort people who are concerned about climate change, although the data are not comforting in the grand scheme of things. No doubt a lot of climate sceptics are stubborn and will not be moved by new methodological approaches. Some, however, will. And although American environmentalists are regrouping after a series of setbacks, they're hardly going to abandon the issue of climate change. Reinforced data may help as they retool their strategies.What will those ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Europe’s rescue plan                              Fly Title:                                           Economics focus                              Rubric:                                           The business cycle matters when assessing the cost of new regulations                              Main image:                                           20111029_FND000_0.jpg                                                AMERICAN policymakers are pulling every lever they can to revive the economy, from fiscal stimulus to quantitative easing. The big exception has been regulatory policy. From environmental protection to bank oversight, the rule book has steadily thickened in recent years. Republican critics of Barack Obama think this explains America’s economic malaise. Scrap the rules, they claim, and the economy will spring to life. Nonsense, responds the Treasury. In a recent article, Jan Eberly, an assistant secretary for economic policy, scrutinised the behaviour of corporate-bond yields, corporate profits and other indicators. She found no evidence that regulatory uncertainty is holding businesses back from hiring or investment; weak demand is the big culprit.  Yet regulation, if not a prime suspect, ...   
   A new measure of global warming FOR those who question whether global warming is really happening, it is necessary to believe that the instrumental temperature record is wrong. That is a bit easier than you might think. There are three compilations of mean global temperatures going back over 150 years from NASA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and a collaboration between Britain’s Met Office and the University of East Anglia’s Climate Research Unit (known as Hadley CRU). All suggest a similar pattern of warming amounting to about 0.9°C over land in the past half century. Yet this consistency masks large uncertainties in the raw data and doubts about their methodologies. But a new study of current data and analysis by Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature offers strong support to the existing temperature compilations. The results, described in four papers still undergoing peer review, are released on October 20th. It estimates that over the past 50 years the land surface warmed by 0.911°C: a mere 2% less than NOAA’s estimate. That is despite its use of a novel methodology—designed, at least in part, to address the concerns of what its head, Richard Muller, terms “legitimate sceptics”. The study will be published online with supporting data, merged from 15 separate sources, with duplications and other errors clearly signalled. At a time of exaggerated ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Rage against the machine                              Fly Title:                                           Australian politics                              Rubric:                                           Despite some successes, Julia Gillard’s popularity has shrunk dramatically                              Location:                                           SYDNEY                               Main image:                                           20111022_ASP001_0.jpg                                                IT SHOULD have been her moment of triumph. On October 12th Julia Gillard, Australia’s prime minister, beamed broadly as the lower house of parliament approved her minority Labor government’s plan for a carbon price to fight climate change. The Senate, the upper house, is expected to endorse it next month, marking a turning point for Australia, which emits more carbon per person than any other country in the developed world. After years of bitter political wrangles, Australia will start taxing its biggest polluters and pouring money into solar, wind and other renewable-energy sources from next July. Ms Gillard even landed a punctilious peck on the cheek of Kevin Rudd (pictured above), the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Rage against the machine                              Fly Title:                                           Clean power                              Rubric:                                           Energy efficiency is not very flashy. That may be a selling point                              Location:                                           SAN ANTONIO                               Main image:                                           Hope those are energy-saving bulbs                                    Hope those are energy-saving bulbs            WHEN Richard Sanchez heard from a friend that the city of San Antonio would pick up most of the costs of installing a new lighting system in his barbershop, he quickly made a call. The city was running a new programme called City Lights, funded by a $2m grant from the 2009 stimulus, designed to make energy-efficient improvements to small businesses. But Mr Sanchez was not exactly motivated by greenery. “It was way better than our older lighting, which was costing twice as much,” he explains.  For many years energy efficiency was the poor relation to cutting-edge clean technology initiatives like wind and solar. But now the more workaday strategies are ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Rage against the machine                              Fly Title:                                           Climate change                              Rubric:                                           A new analysis of the temperature record leaves little room for the doubters. The world is warming                              Main image:                                           20111022_STD001_0.jpg                                                FOR those who question whether global warming is really happening, it is necessary to believe that the instrumental temperature record is wrong. That is a bit easier than you might think.  There are three compilations of mean global temperatures, each one based on readings from thousands of thermometers, kept in weather stations and aboard ships, going back over 150 years. Two are American, provided by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), one is a collaboration between Britain’s Met Office and the University of East Anglia’s Climate Research Unit (known as Hadley CRU). And all suggest a similar pattern of warming: amounting to about 0.9°C over land in the past half century.                In this section»The heat is ...   
   LAST week I stopped by the Austin headquarters of HelioVolt, a company that makes thin-film solar panels. People were feeling good: last month, HelioVolt announced that it had raised $85m in its most recent round of funding, including $50m from South Korea’s SK International. “We’re not really big believers in huge subsidies,” said Iga Hallberg, its vice-president for business development. That is, she argues, basic economic logic; if a product is not competitive than whopping supports are only postponing the inevitable.To be fair, HelioVolt has had some incentives—a property tax abatement from the city of Austin, $1m from Governor Rick Perry’s much-maligned “deal-closing fund”. But that's pocket change compared to the public largesse showered on one of its direct competitors, the California-based Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy last month after receiving $535m in low-cost federal loans as part of the 2009 stimulus. That bankruptcy is a headache for the Obama administration, which had fondly touted Solyndra. And it is a blow to other green businesses, as the paper explains this week. In recent years, politicians from both parties have talked up “green jobs” as an elegant way to put people to work while helping the environment. It would just require a bit of taxpayer money, a few billion here and there to help with capital investment and R&D and training for the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Nowhere to hide                              Fly Title:                                           Climate and the solar cycle                              Rubric:                                           Stratospheric changes can lead to nasty cold snaps                              Main image:                                           20111015_STP002_0.jpg                                                THOSE unconvinced—and those seeking to unconvince others—of the reality of man-made global warming often point to the changeable behaviour of the sun as an alternative hypothesis. A new study showing how the severity of winters in Europe, and warming in the Arctic, might be linked to changes in solar activity might seem to add to this case. In itself, it does not, for the heat (or, rather, the cold) in question is being redistributed, not retained. But it does point to two other lessons about climate change: that hard data on the factors which affect it are sometimes difficult to come by; and that computer models of the climate can be quite impressive tools for working out what is going on.  The sun’s activity waxes and wanes on an 11-year cycle, and over this cycle the amount of ultraviolet (UV) ...   
   The energy efficiency of computing is doubling every 18 months IN 1965 Gordon Moore, a co-founder of Intel, first observed that integrated circuits, better known as silicon chips, seemed to conform to a predictable law: since their invention in 1958, the density of components in each chip had doubled each year, and this trend was, he suggested, likely to continue for at least a decade. In 1975 Dr Moore modified his prediction, observing that component density was doubling every two years. In practical terms, the result is that personal-computer performance doubles every 18 months, and has done so for decades, a prediction commonly known as Moore’s law. As computers have become mobile devices, however, their users are increasingly concerned about battery life as well as raw performance. So they will welcome a new analysis, by Jonathan Koomey of Stanford University and his colleagues, which seems to have uncovered a deeper law relating to the energy-efficiency of computers, dating back to the era of vacuum tubes. The researchers found that the electrical efficiency of computing has doubled every 1.6 years since the mid-1940s. “That means that for a fixed amount of computational power, the need for battery capacity will fall by half every 1.6 years,” observes Dr Koomey. This trend, he says, “bodes well for the continued explosive growth in mobile computing, sensors and ...   
   IT'S an uncomfortable feeling, when you've written about a subject dozens of times over the years, to suddenly be brought up short by an ontological question. Yet that's what's happened to me over the past few days, trawling around the eco-smug cities of Portland, Oregon and Austin, Texas, talking to people about green jobs. The question is: what is a green job, exactly?I've always thought about "green jobs" as the category covering work with explicit and intentional environmental benefits. Working on a wind turbine: yes. Making solar panels: of course. Organic farming: okay. Farming in general: not really. Teaching science in a public high school: an admirable endeavour, but not a green job. But there are lots of jobs that fall in a gray area. Tofu can be swapped for emissions-heavy beef; does growing soybeans count? What if you manufacture bicycles? The more you think about this, the more uncertain you become. Most jobs can be greened or at least greenwashed; in Portland, for example, there is a vegan strip club. On the other hand, you could make a Malthusian argument that no job is green because anything that creates value for people helps them and facilitates their attrition campaign against the earth.   
   ON SATURDAY evening I visited the Serbian barricade at Zubin Potok in northern Kosovo. All was calm and the Serbs there told me that they had been getting on quite well with the German soldiers from KFOR, the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo, who were standing on top of the barricade. Doubtless all was calm at the Dudin Krs one as well. Yet last night KFOR tried to remove the barricade the Serbs had erected there. The result was 21 injured soldiers and an unknown numbers of Serbs hurt.   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           The euro                              Rubric:                                           The crisis in the euro area is turning into a panic and dragging the zone into recession. The risk that the currency disintegrates within weeks is alarmingly high                              Main image:                                           20111126_BBD001_0.jpg                                                FIRST Greece; then Ireland and Portugal; then Italy and Spain. Month by month, the crisis in the euro area has crept from the vulnerable periphery of the currency zone towards its core, helped by denial, misdiagnosis and procrastination by the euro-zone’s policymakers. Recently Belgian and French government bonds have been in the financial markets’ bad books. Investors are even sniffy about German bonds: an auction of ten-year Bunds on November 23rd shifted only €3.6 billion-worth ($4.8 billion) of the €6 billion-worth on offer.  Worse, there are signs that the euro zone’s economy is heading for recession, if it is not there already. Industrial orders in the euro zone fell by 6.4% in September, the ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           Is this really the end?                              Fly Title:                                           Charlemagne                              Rubric:                                           Denial and delusion in Brussels, as the single currency founders                              Main image:                                           20111126_EUD012_0.jpg                                                THE designers of the good ship euro wanted to create the greatest liner of the age. But as everybody now knows, it was fit only for fair-weather sailing, with an anarchic crew and no lifeboat. Its rules of economic seamanship were rudimentary, and were broken anyway. When it struck a reef two years ago, the water flooded one compartment after another.  “The situation is extremely serious, more so perhaps than at any point in the last 18 months,” José Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, said this week. He announced two last-ditch initiatives to avert doom. One is a “green paper” on options for joint Eurobonds. To balance this mutualisation of debt, he also proposed stronger monitoring of national budgets by Brussels, including the right to recommend changes before they are ...   
   THE landslide victory of the centre-right Partido Popular in Spain has raised hopes on the British right that perhaps David Cameron may have gained an ally around the council tables of Europe, as Britain battles for a more lightly-regulated, lower-cost, more loosely-integrated European Union.Here is a piece on ConservativeHome, wondering if the new Spanish government will side with Germany or with Britain as the tectonic plates of European integration shift and slide:Where Spain falls ideologically could be just as significant for the  UK, another major voice calling for reform in the EU could be enough in  the face of the crisis to prompt real change, supported by a groundswell  of discontent among the European populous. A chorus of leadership in  Germany, France, Italy and Spain however, will be enough to shout down  the UK, marginalise calls for reform and prove significant in pushing  forward the kind of fiscal regulation that could severely damage the  city and the UK economy as a whole.James Forsyth of the Spectator notes, correctly, that the prime minister-elect, Mariano Rajoy, has spoken admiringly of the British government's deficit reduction plans. Then Mr Forsyth moves onto shakier ground, wondering if David Cameron and the Conservative-led coalition in Britain may have found a new friend in the EU, writing:The other impact that a change of government in Spain ...   
   SOMETIMES things become so odd in the Balkans that once ceases to wonder why anymore. In Zubin Potok in northern Kosovo, Serbs have built a big roadblock. It consists of buses and trucks full of gravel and topped with barbed wire, intended to stop KFOR, the NATO-led peacekeeping force, from cutting a road used by Serbs. One bus is decorated with posters of Ratko Mladic, the Bosnian Serb military leader now on trial in The Hague for genocide. Serb men on duty are camped on one side of the road warming themselves at a brazier, while German troops are standing guard on top of the barricade built by the Serbs, keeping an eye on them.The Zubin Potok barricade was built on September 18th. It is one of 18 roadblocks now dotting Serbian-controlled northern Kosovo. If you come from the Albanian-controlled south a large mound of gravel now cuts the main bridge in the divided city of Mitrovica for vehicles. However, Mitrovica’s second bridge remains open, and the gravel on the main bridge is only on the road, not on the pavement, meaning that people can still walk across the River Ibar here.The barricades began to go up in July, when Kosovo’s government tried to deploy customs and police officers on the two northern border checkpoints with Serbia that they lost control of when Kosovo declared independence in 2008. There are some 120,000 Serbs in Kosovo, of whom about a third are in ...   
   AS promised/threatened earlier, a quick update on the joint press  conference in Berlin between David Cameron and Angela Merkel. According  to wire reports from Berlin (Bagehot is in London today), the two leaders agreed to disagree on a  financial transactions tax (sometimes generically referred to as a Tobin Tax, though technically that is something slightly different) and dodged the question of whether  ECB intervention is the only way to reassure the markets.One thing does  jump out from the videos: in tone and mood this was not the showdown  predicted by the British press or by the leading German tabloid, Bild, whose headline this morning asks: "Why are the English still in the EU?". Mrs Merkel addressed Bild's question in her remarks, saying:Naturally there are differences. But Europe can only prevail if all the strong countries of the European continent are represented. And if we have a bit of tolerance for the different views, that we always have the strength in Europe to build such bridges even if there are different opinions on some issue The chancellor gave no ground on the use of the ECB as a lender of last resort, saying: The British demand that we use a large amount of firepower to win back credibility for the euro zone is right. But we have to take care that we don't pretend to have powers we don't have. Because the markets will figure out very quickly that ...   
   LOOKING nice but doing nothing is how the Economist caustically described Donald Tusk's first government back in 2008. Today he launched the government programme for his second term, offering an impressive sounding list of austerity measures, reforms and other changes. We will give our analysis later, but for those readers with the appetite, his office has just sent us the official English translation.    
   TRADE spats in the Balkans can be the harbingers of war. In 1906 the Austro-Hungarian Empire decided to ban Serbia’s pork exports. The little remembered episode, called the Pig War, was one of a number of such rows in the years leading up to the assassination of Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo and the cataclysm that followed. So readers may like to take note of the looming Egg War between Bosnia and the European Union, or more specifically Croatia.When Croatia joins the EU on 1 July 2013 its frontiers with Slovenia and Hungary will become unimportant. But its other borders (with Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia) will then be the EU’s external boundary. Two of these don't matter much: Serbia’s border with Croatia is relatively short and Montenegro’s is tiny, basically one road where Croatia’s tail tapers out. Morever, in both Serbia and Montenegro the system of government is clear. When those countries export dairy products, eggs and meat, (including Serbia's specialty pork), will all have a stamp of approval from EU-compliant agencies, which will test and certify that their produce is fit for import to the union.Bosnia is another story. Nobody can agree on who does what. The Republika Srpska, the Serb part of the country, always demands that virtually everything be done on the so-called “entity” level, while Bosniaks want it done at state level. ...   
   THE DAILY Mail carries a cartoon of Angela Merkel this morning sporting a Hitler moustache, jackboots, riding breeches and doing the Nazi salute. It is all a terrific joke, apparently, a parody of the Mel Brooks comedy "Springtime for Hitler" (adapted by the Mail to add such chortling touches as a "Greek President Stavros" character, David Cameron as Neville Chamberlain and Nick Clegg as a Hitler youth). This follows columns by the Mail's chief political thinker, Simon Heffer, accusing Germany of trying to found a "Fourth Reich." Over at ConservativeHome, a website not known for slavish pro-Europeanism, a sighing Tim Montgomerie asks: "Can we talk about Germany without resorting to WWII imagery?"I suspect that is another of John Rentoul's "Questions to which the answer is no." For what it is worth, I idly wonder whether some deep-seated psychological complex is playing out at Northcliffe House, Kensington headquarters of the Mail empire. Perhaps the tabloid feels bound to denounce the Fourth Reich because—for much of the 1930s—it so enthusiastically supported the Third Reich? Who can forget the July 1933 "Youth Triumphant" leader in praise of Nazism by the paper's owner Lord Rothermere, informing British readers that before Herr Hitler took over, "Israelites of international attachments were insinuating themselves into key positions in the German administrative machine"? Or ...   
   The physics of ChristmasHow does Santa deliver all those presents in one night? Science suggests he has an ultra-high-tech operation beneath the North Pole that uses an algorithm about time zones and a stealth sleigh with cloaking technology to give his millions of elves 18 seconds to spend in each houseThe site of America’s electionsIn just under a year’s time, Americans will vote on whether to keep Barack Obama in office for a second term. There is much to say in the interim: this new page brings together all our articles, blog posts and multimedia items examining the road to the White HouseBig Blue BuffettNo one ever got fired for buying IBM, goes an adage. By betting more than $10 billion on Big Blue then watching the share price rise, Warren Buffett, who runs the investment firm Berkshire Hathaway, demonstrates once more that no one ever gets fired for investing like himUnited States: A wonderful weirdnessA slideshow of photos showing candidates, big and small, preparing for the New Hampshire primaryEurope: All the fun of the Tirana book fairPolitics leaves the streets of Albania’s capital and settles into an armchairMiddle East: Join the debateShould Israel and America bomb Iran’s nuclear facilities?Asia: The few, the proudNepal’s Maoist rebels are joining the national army or being cashiered. A visit to their old camp finds few of them cheeringAsia: A shot heard ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Charlemagne                              Rubric:                                           The German chancellor’s actions fall short of her rhetoric about political union                              Main image:                                           20111119_EUD000_0.jpg                                                ANGELA MERKEL, the German chancellor, did her best to revive Germany’s European spirit this week. At the congress of her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Leipzig, she spoke of past wars and of modern Europe’s role in building peace. She hailed her predecessors, Konrad Adenauer and Helmut Kohl, for uniting Europe and Germany. And she appealed to self-interest: Germans’ prosperity depended on Europe’s well-being. Now that Europe faced its “darkest hour since the second world war”, it was time to push for more integration to save the euro. “The task of our generation is to complete economic and monetary union, and build political union in Europe, step by step.” The rebirth of European federalism in Germany? Not quite.  Mrs Merkel’s rhetoric was oddly empty and detached from ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           Technocrats                              Rubric:                                           Government by experts sounds tempting, especially in a crisis. It can work. But brief stints have the best chances                              Main image:                                           20111119_IRD001_0.jpg                                                EVEN before Plato conceived the philosopher-king, people yearned for clever, dispassionate and principled government. When the usual run of rulers proves cowardly, indecisive or discredited, turning to the wisdom and expertise of a technocrat, as both Italy and Greece have done in recent days, is particularly tempting.  Part of the attraction of the term “technocrat”, however, is that the label is so stretchy. Does it mean just any expert in government, or one from outside politics? How many technocrats, and in which positions, justify a government’s “technocratic” label? Does such an administration operate within the political system, or supplant it? For how long? Can a technocrat evolve into a politician and vice versa? The answers are ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           The magic of diasporas                              Fly Title:                                           The market for state territory                              Rubric:                                           Just imagine that countries still traded land for money                              Main image:                                           A sunnier outlook in Alaska than in Greece                                    A sunnier outlook in Alaska than in Greece            HELLENIC opinion was outraged last year when Frank Schäffler, a German politician, advised “bankrupt Greeks” to “sell your islands…and sell the Acropolis too!” That is hardly practical politics: as long as Greece remains a democracy, the political, and perhaps biological, lifespan of a leader who proposed hauling down the flag over even the tiniest Aegean outcrop would be measured in hours.  The furore obscured what Mr Schäffler was proposing: lease, commercial sale or a transfer of sovereignty. The government is already selling some land. The Institute for Strategic and Development Studies, a think-tank in Athens, says the Greek state has €35 billion ($47 billion) of property immediately available, which could cover 10% of ...   
   THE X-RAY body-scanners that are found in some airports in America have been banned in the European Union. Doubts have long persisted about the safety of these machines, which emit a minute amount of radiation, and the EU has explicitly linked such doubts to its decision, announced at the start of the week. As the press release has it:In order not to risk jeopardising citizens' health and safety, only  security scanners which do not use X-ray technology are added to the  list of authorised methods for passenger screening at EU airports.That's not exactly going to cheer up American travellers, who are already struggling to understand why the Transportation Security Administration decided that the X-ray scanners were suitable for them to use. Another kind of body-scanner is available, which uses radiofrequency technology that   has not been linked to cancer scares. These are installed in some American airports, such as Atlanta and Dallas, and will be the scanner of choice in Europe.Siim Kallas, the EU transport commissioner, explained some of the reasoning behind the decision:Security scanners are not a panacea but they do offer a real possibility to reinforce passenger security.  Security scanners are a valuable alternative to existing screening methods and are  very efficient in detecting both metallic and non-metallic objects. It  is still for each Member State or airport ...   
   Who's popping what in the European Union  COCAINE-RELATED offences committed in the European Union rose 39% between 2004 and 2009, according to the latest annual report from the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. But the figures looked to be stabilising in the last couple of years, perhaps because the drug's price made it less appealing during a period of economic hardship. In 2009 some 1.5m Europeans between the ages of 15 and 34 took cocaine, though prevalence varied in individual countries from 0.1% in Romania and Greece to 2.5% in Estonia. On the other hand ecstasy usage, which has often been linked to the dance-music scene, has been going steadily downwards, and dropped 54% during the same period. But it is cannabis that dominates the numbers: of the 912,000 offences reported in the European Union for the use or possession of drugs in 2009, over three-quarters related to the weed. Indeed only in the Czech Republic and Latvia—where methamphetamines predominate—and Malta—where cocaine causes more problems—was cannabis pipped as the largest cause of drug-related offences.   
   OVER the last 24 hours, a couple of contacts have posed an intriguing question. Has the latest stage of the euro zone debt crisis been part of a cunning plan? Both Greece and Italy are forming technocratic governments and Berlusconi has finally gone. By the end of this week, indeed, the governments of all five countries in the PIIGS grouping (Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain) will have changed since the start of the crisis if, as expected, the ruling Socialists lose power in Spain. The prospects for economic reform in the peripheral European countries look a lot stronger than before.Who is behind this plan? One could point the finger at Angela Merkel or at the European Central Bank; by not giving the peripheral nations a blank cheque from the German voters, or unlimited money creation, they have forced those nations to make hard choices.If it is a plan, then, to quote Blackadder, it has been "more cunning than a fox who's been appointed Professor of Cunning at Oxford University". Until this autumn, the apparent aim of all the EU's rescue packages was to stop the crisis spreading to Italy and Spain; it has spread to both. Indeed, the borrowing costs of supposedly core countries like France and the Netherlands have been rising relative to those of Germany. Although it grew in Q3, the euro zone may now be in recession; that can hardly have been part of the plan.If ...   
   CONSTRUCTIVE criticism, from a Britain at the heart of EU decision-making. That was the new tone on Europe from David Cameron this evening, as he climbed into white tie and tails and gave his annual Lord Mayor's banquet speech on foreign policy.To believe the rather lazy instant headlines, the prime minister took the same Eurosceptic line at the Mansion House tonight as he did in the House of Commons last month, when he tried to head off a European rebellion by describing the euro crisis as a great opportunity to advance Britain's national interests.According to the BBC, for example, Mr Cameron used tonight's speech to say that: "The current turmoil in Europe is an opportunity for the UK to "refashion" its relationship with Brussels." The Daily Telegraph, meanwhile, asserts in its report that: "The Prime Minister insisted that leaving the EU was “not in our national    interest” but said he felt “very personally” that now was the time for a    fundamental reconsideration of European relations".Actually, Mr Cameron's speech was more subtle than that, and more pragmatic than his House of Commons intervention last month. That October statement was calculated to leave the impression with MPs that the prime minister shared their yearning to hijack future EU treaty changes and demand back a raft of powers from the EU under threat of a British veto (with Mr Cameron differing with ...   
   WHILE we're on the subject of just what it means to be European, let me direct your attention to this week's print edition, which contains a Special report on the euro crisis by The Economist's foreign editor, Ed Carr:[T]he crisis that has engulfed the European Union (EU) is about much more than the euro. As government bonds, share prices and banks swoon and global recession knocks on the door, the first fear is of financial and economic collapse. But to understand what is happening to the currency you also need to look at what is happening to Europe.The euro will not be safe until Europe answers some fundamental questions that it has run away from for many years. At their root is how its nations should respond to a world that is rapidly changing around them. What will it do as globalisation strips the West of the monopoly over the technologies that have made it rich, and an ageing Europe starts to look increasingly like the western peninsula of a resurgent Asia?Some Europeans would like to put up carefully designed fences around the EU’s still vast and wealthy market. Others, including a growing number of populist politicians, want to turn their nations inward and shut out not just the world but also the elites’ project of European integration. And a few—from among those same elites, mostly—argue that the only means of paying for Europe’s distinctive way of life is not to ...   
   FEW countries in the region arouse more concern than Hungary and few politicians arouse more controversy than its prime minister, Viktor Orbán. Critics see him as the harbinger of authoritarian rule, presiding over the imminent collapse of the economy. (See here for a round-up of recent Economist pieces).It is worth aiming off a little given that the critics are mostly (though not all) Mr Orbán's political rivals. Hungary's  economic difficulties are serious (the combination of large foreign-currency debts and a weakening forint is especially alarming). It is more vulnerable to the chaos in the euro zone than any of the nearby countries. But to be fair, Hungary is no longer in the intensive-care ward as it was when the IMF bailed it out in 2008. Mr Orbán inherited a mess and has (thanks to some bruising, and in some cases questionable, measures) brought public finances under control.Similarly it is easy to exaggerate criticism of Mr Orbán's political approach. His headstrong way with public institutions can seem like a power grab, until you remember that Hungary's political system is based on the idea of "winner takes all". The Fidesz party that he leads gained a hefty mandate in the 2010 elections and has since then, quite rightly in his supporters' eyes, carrying out his mandate of stabilisation and reform. If that means biffing a few foreign ...   
   I WAS determined to avoid writing about the Europe this week: there is a lot of it about in other sections of the paper, and I do not want to start sounding like a sad Euro-obsessive (at least, more than I already do). I have only partly succeeded.I managed to avoid writing about the European Union. But, little-noticed amid the clanging of fire-bells and wailing of sirens in the euro-zone, this week marked the start of a six-month campaign by Britain to reform another branch of "Europe", namely the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That story was too important to ignore, so I have written a piece about it for the Britain section in this week's print edition. Sorry about that.On November 7th, Britain took over the rotating half-year chairmanship of the body that runs the Strasbourg court, the Council of Europe (a 47-nation rights guardian founded shortly after the second world war, not to be confused with the 27-member EU).In the normal run of things, Britain's chairmanship of a body as obscure as the Council of Europe would not set many pulses racing. But rulings by the Strasbourg court—which considers complaints based on the European Convention of Human Rights—have been creating banner headlines of late. It was the Strasbourg court which ordered Britain to rethink a blanket ban on prisoners voting, following a complaint from a litigious British prisoner serving ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           That’s all, folks                              Fly Title:                                           International marriage                              Rubric:                                           Research at last begins to cast some light on the extent, causes and consequences of cross-border marriages                              Location:                                           SEOUL                               Main image:                                           20111112_IRD001_0.jpg                                                IF SHAKIRA, a Colombian pop star, marries her boyfriend, the Spanish national footballer Gerard Piqué, the only unusual things about it would be that she is even more famous than he is and ten years older. Otherwise, theirs would be just a celebrity example of one of the world’s biggest social trends: the rise of international marriages—that is, involving couples of different nationalities.  A hundred years ago, such alliances were confined to the elite of the elite. When Randolph Churchill married Jennie Jerome of New York, it seemed as if they had stepped from the pages of a Henry James novel: brash, spirited American heiress peps up the declining fortunes of ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           That’s all, folks                              Fly Title:                                           Charlemagne                              Rubric:                                           Efforts to save the euro cannot run against the will of the voters indefinitely                                                EUROPE has claimed the scalps of two leaders in almost as many days. First George Papandreou, the Greek prime minister, promised to resign, and then Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi did the same. Both leaders have been in trouble for some time, but the immediate cause of their downfall is plain: the ultimatum they received from euro-zone leaders at the G20 summit in Cannes to reform their economies—or else.  Mr Papandreou was instructed to approve the last European bail-out deal or risk losing his loans and being ejected from the euro. He scrapped his call for a referendum, and agreed on November 6th to make way for a government of national unity. With Italy’s bond yields reaching danger levels, Mr Berlusconi was told he lacked credibility and was made to “invite” the IMF to supervise his reforms. On November 8th, though, Mr Berlusconi lost his majority in parliament, and agreed to step down ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Issue:                                           That’s all, folks                              Fly Title:                                           Buttonwood                              Rubric:                                           A new EU plan to shoot the messenger                              Main image:                                           20111112_FND002_0.jpg                                                BEWARE Italian government debt. Rising yields increase the country’s financing costs and make it harder for the administration to balance its—We interrupt this column for a message from the European Commission. With Italy being advised by the International Monetary Fund, negative opinions about its bonds are not helpful. The publication of this article is not permitted.  Thankfully, the EU has not decided to censor The Economist. But a European Commission draft paper on credit-rating agencies does propose that, in some circumstances, they should be barred from changing their sovereign ratings.                In this sectionDrought warning  »The road to self-deception  Fright simulator  Contact sports  Asia’s rice bowls  Fee high so dumb  Exports to Mars  ReprintsRelated topicsThe Economist Group  European Commission  European ...   
   NICOLAS Sarkozy is causing a big stir after calling on November 8th for  a two-speed Europe: a “federal” core of the 17 members of the euro zone, with a looser “confederal” outer band of the ten non-euro members. He made the comments during a debate with students at the University of Strasbourg. The key passage is below (video here, starting near the 63-minute mark) You cannot make a single currency without economic convergence and economic integration. It's impossible.  But on the contrary, one cannot plead for federalism and at the same time for the enlargement of Europe. It's impossible. There's a contradiction. We are 27. We will obviously have to open up to the Balkans. We will be 32, 33 or 34. I imagine that nobody thinks that federalism—total integration—is possible at 33, 34, 35 countries. So what one we do? To begin with, frankly, the single currency is a wonderful idea, but it was strange to create it without asking oneself the question of its governance, and without asking oneself about economic convergence. Honestly, it's nice to have a vision, but there are details that are missing: we made a currency, but we kept fiscal systems and economic systems that not only were not converging, but were diverging. And not only did we make a single currency without convergence, but we tried to undo the rules of the pact. It cannot work. There will not be a single ...   
   UK Only Article:                       standard article                              Fly Title:                                           Leaders                              Rubric:                                           When the panic has abated, argues Edward Carr, the euro zone must redesign its currency                              Main image:                                           Try this for a blueprint                      Broadly speaking, two tribes have skirmished with each other during the euro crisis: the markets and the politicians. In 2012 the battle will become a lot more complicated, as the politicians splinter into factions. It sounds dangerous—and it is—but thrashing out political arguments is an essential part of bringing the crisis to an end.  Amid the banks’ plunging shares and the soaring yields of government bonds, it is easy to lose sight of the political questions being asked of Europe. Markets have forced Europe’s troubled economies to confront austerity and reform, but politics will determine how they do so. Markets have demanded that Germany and other creditor nations finance a rescue, but politics will decide what they demand in return. Markets want a revamp of the euro’s governance, but politics will ordain how energetically the European Union embraces federalism.  Austerity and a rescue ...   
   With the entry of foreign supermarket players, farmers across India's six lakh villages stand to gain from greater market access, higher profits.                         
   Five years ago, the HR think thank at the group set about the task of grooming younger leaders, with the top brass not getting any younger.                         
   Five years ago, the HR think thank at the group set about the task of grooming younger leaders, with the top brass not getting any younger.                         
   Asian shares, euro hovered near seven-week lows as European officials failed to soothe investor fears that euro zone crisis could trigger a credit crunch.                    
   Crore-plus salaries have kept their date with B-school campuses, allaying fears that a worsening global economy will keep multinational recruiters away.                         
   According to data, promoters of about 376 cos, out of the listed 1,214, with market capitalisation in excess of Rs 100 cr, have pledged their shares to raise funds.                         
   Perhaps it the sense of absurd fun that's made the song a hit across the nation, with close to 2 million hits on its official YouTube video in less than a week.                    
   A 3-BHK apartment, with an area of 1,750 sqft, at MIG Colony in Bandra (E) was recently transacted for Rs 4.20 crore.                         
   High fuel prices have car owners worried.There is no saying what will be future course of oil prices. Some tips to ensure your finances are not strained.                         
   "We may see supply lagging almost 40% to demand for computers in the coming months," the president of Manufacturers Association of IT industry.                         
   Government's decision for FDI in retail sector likely to prompt real estate players to revive their plans shelved earlier due to slowdown.                         
   Ranbaxy and the US FDA are inching toward a settlement over the Indian drug maker’s regulatory troubles in the world’s largest drug market.                         
   The subscriber-linked methodology to award second-generation (2G) spectrum or airwaves to telecom companies is set to make a comeback.                         
   Tata Sons will infuse Rs 500 crore into the group’s real estate arm, Tata Housing Development Company, through a fresh issue of equity shares.                         
   As Oil Ministry looks to disallow some of the expenditure Reliance Industries has made on its flagging KG-D6 gas fields, Mukesh Ambani met Manmohan Singh.                         
   Don’t let the process wear you down. Follow these simple tips, take it step by step, and you’re sure to make it with your sanity intact                         
   The shareholdings of these investors were jointly mentioned with promoter stakes due to special rights that PEs and VCs enjoyed in cos where they invested.                    
   The shareholdings of these investors were jointly mentioned with promoter stakes due to special rights that PEs and VCs enjoyed in cos where they invested.                         
   European shares fell for sixth consecutive session after Merkel restated her position against changing the role of ECB to ease the euro zone debt crisis.                         
   The robust response from NRIs who stand to gain from the slide in rupee holds out fresh hope for domestic builders saddled with piling inventories.                         
   Rollover of November derivatives contracts to Dec, the expiry day of the current month series, was lower than the previous months, as retail traders refrained from carrying forward positions due to hazy market prospects.                         
   Many Tata Group stocks rose 1% to 4% on Thursday, though analysts said the share gains had little to do with the surprise change in the leadership.                         
   Canadian firm Research In Motion (RIM) today announced the launch of three new handsets based on its BlackBerry 7 operating system in the country.                         
   Chinese media has said that India is "jealous" of China's growing influence in Asia and charged it with instigating "small" neighbours.                         
      Banks can now give 125 basis points over Libor – benchmark rate in international money markets on foreign currency non-resident accounts.                         
   Lakshmi Mittal, the NRI steel tycoon with a fortune estimated at 15.5 bn pounds, is the most powerful Asian in Britain, according to a new list of eminent Asians in the country.                         
      Microsoft is reportedly trying to buy Yahoo for a second time after it signed a confidentiality agreement with the Internet firm.                         
      The impact of the eurozone debt crisis on Asian cos should be 'manageable' due to an increase in regional trade and a greater reliance on regional banks.                         
      While demand for IT,IT-enabled job remains high, placement coordinators and students say Indian IT firms have refused to hike fresher salaries.                         
   Govt has selected high-profile retired bureaucrats as independent directors of state energy firms ONGC, Indian Oil, HPCL and Gail.                         
   Infosys Ltd expects third-quarter revenue growth closer to the lower end of its forecast as customers delay decisions on large contracts.                         
      The five who are granted bail include Sanjay Chandra of Unitech Wireless, Vinod Goenka of DB Realty and Reliance Group's Gautam Doshi.                         
      Yash Raj Films has forayed into the international market by launching a Hollywood-based production and financing company that will produce international content.                    
   Jaxtr Inc, founded by Sabeer Bhatia and Yogesh Patel, launched JaxtrSMS, a cross-platform open texting application to send SMSes to anyone in the world for free.                         
   Companies like Toyota, General Motors, Honda, Maruti and Audi have said with falling rupee, they have to pay more for parts and components that are imported.                    
      India's $70 billion IT-BPO industry, for the first time, is not so exuberant about small gains in operating margins due to a Rupee fall.                         
      More than 60 vehicles will be launched, at the Auto Expo 2012 in New Delhi early next year despite the recent slump in the Indian car market.                    
   Emami, Marico and Wipro Consumer are in the final lap to acquire Paras Pharma's 100-crore personal care business from Reckitt Benckiser.                    
      The move that will help in channelising funds for the infra sector which needs about USD 1 trillion during the 12th Plan period.                    
      The hit due to the weakening of rupee comes at a time when auto makers have been enduring one of the toughest periods with car sales.                         
      On flats for the Economic Weaker Section (EWS), Roy said, "About 1220 EWS flats in Dwarka are completed and 512 EWS flats are in progress in Rohini."                         
      Vikram Akula, the one-time poster boy of microfinance and founder-chairman of SKS is set to lose control over the company he founded in 1998.                    
      The Finance Ministry set annual direct tax target of Rs 5.85 lakh crore, of which only Rs 2.32 lakh crore have been mopped up till now.                         
      In an interview with ET Now, RC Bhargava, MD, Maruti, talks about company's health and future plans. Excerpts:                    
      For India, the big-ticket beneficiaries of the visa relaxation rule would be information technology and IT-enabled services sectors.                         
      The Rs 170-crore Career Launcher will control Brilliant Tutorials' brand in north and east India, and will have access to its teaching material.                         
      Infosys has raised warned of deteriorating economic environment which has the potential to adversely affect revenue growth in the coming months.                         
      If you are among NRIs returning to India and a Green Card holder, then there are some things you should know about your US tax obligations.                         
      Warren Buffett said that Europe's debt crisis had illustrated a "major flaw" in the 17-member euro zone system and it would take more than words to fix it.                         
   Asian shares, euro hovered near seven-week lows as European officials failed to soothe investor fears that euro zone crisis could trigger a credit crunch.                         
   As Tata Group gears up for change with the naming of Cyrus Mistry as the successor to Ratan Tata, it is interesting to take a quick look at some of the group's businesses and the challenges for the new chairman.                         
   According to data, promoters of about 376 cos, out of the listed 1,214, with market capitalisation in excess of Rs 100 cr, have pledged their shares to raise funds.                         
   The shareholdings of these investors were jointly mentioned with promoter stakes due to special rights that PEs and VCs enjoyed in cos where they invested.                    
   The shareholdings of these investors were jointly mentioned with promoter stakes due to special rights that PEs and VCs enjoyed in cos where they invested.                         
   Many Tata Group stocks rose 1% to 4% on Thursday, though analysts said the share gains had little to do with the surprise change in the leadership.                         
   TCS, Tata Motors, Tata Steel and Tata Power rallied in a strong market, helping the group attain a market capitalisation of close to Rs 3,80,000 crore.                         
   The Nifty closed at 4756.45, up 50 points or 1.06 per cent. The broader index touched a high of 4771.10 and low of 4639.10 in trade today.                         
   The shares rose to as high as Rs 435 immediately after the markets commenced this morning, marking a surge of 8.9 per cent from its previous close.                         
   The BSE index closed up 1.01% at 15,858.49, after swinging to a trough of 15,479.97. All but five of its components closed in the green.                         
   Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex staged a pull-back in the afternoon and closed the settlement day of Nov series on a postive note.                         
   Bombay Stock Exchange's Sensex pared intraday losses as buying activity emerged following a positive opening of European peers.                         
   Rupee up in afternoon trade on account of dollar selling from corporates and hopes that steps announced by RBI could boost dollar inflows.                         
   If the dollar index were to rise 20% from here, nothing can stop Asian currencies and emerging market currencies from correcting.                         
   The rupee has slid more than 14% this year against $. Much of the inflationary pressure from a falling rupee comes from crude oil import.                    
   In an interview with ET Now, Vineet Bhatnagar, MD, MF Global, talks about the market. Read full article for the edited excerpts.                         
   I was broadly looking at 4400-4600 as a level and we are getting there. So though there is a lot of bad news at these levels we would look to again actually look to accumulate and buy stock slowly.                    
   ET Now spoke to various experts and here’s what they have to say as to where the Indian markets are headed.                         
   ET Now spoke to various experts and here's what they have to recommend for today's trade:                         
   In an interview with ET Now, Raamdeo, Director & Co-Founder, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, talks about the current market scenario.                         
   In an interview with ET Now, Paul Schatz, President, Heritage Capital LLC, talks about the global markets. Excerpts:                    
   The Indian banking sector per se does not have much of direct exposure to the Eurozone. So, in that sense there may not be a cause for worry.                    
   Shares of fertliser makers jumped 2-3% on Thursday on reports that the fertiliser makers are renegotiating import deals.                         
   Japanese stocks hit a two-and-a-half-year low and the euro struggled on Thursday after a disappointing German bond sale.                         
   Bajaj Hindusthan slumped to its 52-week low after the country's largest sugar firm reported a dip in its net profit for 2010-11.                         
      Three months on and the college has already surpassed last year’s average salary with the highest annual package pegged at Rs 10 lakh.                         
      While demand for IT,IT-enabled job remains high, placement coordinators and students say Indian IT firms have refused to hike fresher salaries.                         
   Nokia Siemens Networks is slashing 17,000 jobs worldwide by 2013 as it strives to cut costs by (euro) 1 billion ($1.35 billion).                         
   The IIM-A has changed the placement process for Fellow Programme in Management (FPM) course thus completing the last leg of the revamp process.                         
   Indians are becoming favourites among overseas cos looking for hiring temporary workers, as it gives them flexibility of hiring for particular need at minimum cost.                         
   Abdul Kalam has emerged as one of the top recruiters of the students of IIM-A during the summer placement this year.                         
   Commenting on the importance of HR, Santrupt Mishra, HR director, Aditya Birla Group said, `HR will earn its feet at the table only if it understands the business and represents the voice of the people.’’                         
   This is in line with what is practiced by IT majors like TCS, Infosys Technologies and Wipro that spend huge amounts of resources on training freshers.                         
   Taiwan in Friday unveiled plans to spend about Tw$1.6 billion ($53 million) on a scheme it says will help 20,000 people find jobs                         
   A research report by RICS indicates a probable demand-supply gap of 44 mn core professionals comprising civil engineers, architects and planners, by 2020.                         
   Nitin Gadkari said his party would within five years generate employment for 50 lakh youths in Uttar Pradesh if it came to power in the state.                         
      There is only one hitch: NASA does not have its own spaceship anymore and is sending fewer fliers into orbit right now.                         
   Thota Narasimham today said that the state government is readying to provide jobs to 16 lakh unemployed youths over the next three years.                         
      Five inmates of Tihar Prisons were offered packages of Rs 6,00,000 per annum by different cos that recruited 80 inmates, including 10 women.                         
   Delays in wage payments are reducing the demand for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).                         
   Dutch paint and coatings firm AkzoNobel will double its headcount in India to 4,000 in line with its growth strategy.                         
   As low as 15 per cent of employees in the private sector have started investments for retirement , says a study by Metlife International.                         
   Companies like PriceWaterhouse Coopers, Tata Power Ltd and BNP Paribas Real Estate apart from Adani group companies picked up graduates from Adani Institute of Infrastructure Management (AIIM).                         
   Lovely said govt plans to set up more schools in the city to cater to growing needs and for effective implementation of the RTE Act.                         
   Birthmarks, scars and other facial disfigurements are likely to disqualify a person in job interviews.                         
   The CEOs of India’s largest consumer goods cos, HUL & P&G, have been rewarded with hefty hikes for robust growth                         
   Tatas-owned Jaguar Land Rover today said it plans to recruit over 1,000 people at its Solihull manufacturing plant in the UK.                         
   HSBC Holdings is laying off several hundred investment bankers in London, Hong Kong and elsewhere this week.                         
   Given an option many would wish to work from home to maintain their work-life balance, but a new study has found that the experience makes one exhausted trying to juggle both at the same time.                         
   Technology giant IBM today announced leadership programmes for potential women leaders in areas like technology and sales.                         
   Granted, the world still faces brutality but let's accept remarkable progress and give thanks for the human capacity for compassion.                         
      By mobilising resources to protect tigers' migration corridors and education of surrounding communities, they can lift themselves out of poverty.                         
   RBI's latest Report on Trends and Progress in Banking shows that Net interest margins for Indian banks rose steeply in 2010-11.                         
   RBI's latest Report on Trends and Progress in Banking shows that Net interest margins for Indian banks rose steeply in 2010-11.                         
   If everything from coffee cups to cellphone towers are leading to the mass extinction of urban birds and bees, the future of our planet is clearly at stake.                         
      Urbanisation is a trend based on hope, but it will need a lot of work if it is not to turn into despair for the multitudes that flock daily from hinterland to metropolis.                         
   The first two days of winter session show that politicians, are determined to take governance and the economy down the road to perdition.                         
      Cynics say Omar chose to call for the AFSPA repeal to divert attention from the myriad problems he has faced over the last three years.                         
      What parliamentarians seem to be overlooking inside the House is growing dismay and anger ordinary people acquire for the arrogant and uncaring political class.                         
      The era of shortcuts has ended. If each one of us disciplines himself/herself, most of our problems would be over.                         
      Digvijay Singh, General Secretary, AICC says that the era of shortcuts has ended. "If each one of us disciplines himself/herself, most of our problems would be over."                    
   Unfortunately, the green-energy policies currently being pursued are not helping the environment or the economy.                         
   Quitter's test is a test of what is on the decline: the desire of these MPs to sacrifice their LS seats for the sake of Telangana or their stomach for repeating the same old drama.                         
      To realise our potential as an emerging economy, we need to increase purchasing power of our people, to enlarge aggregate domestic demand. .                         
   Why do people smile in photographs? Christina Kotchemidova, an American academic, has tried to answer this question.                         
   Positive changes, but the junta's flexibility is also an attempt at legitimacy.                         
   Blame it on the neutrinos: they have been travelling faster than light, opening up the possibility of time travel.                         
   According to Draft Mining Bill, mining companies have to pay higher royalties and want changes to be made before the law is enacted.                         
      The strategic issue is to move beyond legalistic debates and bring the needs of the planet and those of poor into a single mutually-reinforcing framework.                         
      Formulate policies that include citizens in delivery of growth as workers, entrepreneurs and consumers                         
      Benetton is probably not so naive as to think that the world's problems can be resolved merely by powerful personalities kissing.                         
   Benetton is probably not so naive as to think that the world's problems can be resolved merely by powerful personalities kissing.                         
   The Sam Pitroda-led National Innovation Council has completed one year and published a report about what it has achieved.                         
   With less than two months left for the next ministerial meeting of the WTO, Aussie trade minister has suggested a new pathway to global trade reform.                         
   In 1888, Brazil became the last country in the Americas to abolish slavery - a profound moral stain for a nation that prides itself as a multiracial democracy.                         
   The amount of global warming-causing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere rose to a new high in 2010, and the rate of increase has accelerated, the UN weather agency said on Monday.                         
   With industrialised countries stalling negotiations on the technology mechanism, a successful outcome at climate meet in Durban seems elusive.                         
   A reputable US think-tank that sought solutions for climate change has lost most of its charitable donations and will now take funding from big oil and energy interests, it said Wednesday.                         
   In great news for environmentalists and nature lovers, the population of the endangered Gangetic river dolphin has grown to 223 from about 175 last year at the Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary, India's only dolphin sanctuary, located in Bihar.                         
   Six persons, including a poacher, were arrested and a leopard skin and horns of nine sambars seized from them near Similipal wildlife sanctuary in Odisha's Mayurbhanj district today.                         
   Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard scored a rare, and possibly pyrrhic, victory with the passage of her carbon tax and welfare package.                         
   An impasse in global climate talks is casting a shadow on clean energy financing in the developing world, with growing doubts over a program that has funded billions of dollars in projects.                         
   With nations facing gaping shortfalls meeting pledges on climate change, several governments and activist groups are pushing to put a price on shipping emissions to fund aid to poor countries.                         
   Global investment in clean energy rose to a record $243 billion dollars last year with the vast majority concentrated in the world's top 20 economies, the United Nations said Wednesday.                         
   Dire forecasts about climate change and the global failure to rein in the growing carbon footprint has made it imperative for both industry and grassroots movement to not only advocate sustainability but embrace it.                         
   Earth Care awards celebrate efforts of individuals and corporate houses that have helped mitigate global warming.                         
   Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday formally inaugurated the free distribution of saplings here at Rajdhani Vatika.                         
   Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday formally inaugurated the free distribution of saplings here at Rajdhani Vatika.                         
   China needs to set absolute restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions if it is to fulfil its aim to set up a carbon market over the next five years, a cabinet office think tank said in a paper published on Thursday.                         
   China needs to set absolute restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions if it is to fulfil its aim to set up a carbon market over the next five years, a cabinet office think tank said in a paper published on Thursday.                         
   India has received an investment of about Rs. 4900 crore through FDI in the renewable energy sector during the last three years and the current year, minister for renewable energy said in response to a question in the parliament.                         
   India has received an investment of about Rs. 4900 crore through FDI in the renewable energy sector during the last three years and the current year, minister for renewable energy said in response to a question in the parliament.                         
   According to the estimates by the World Wind Energy Association (WWEA), the worldwide wind capacity reached 215000 MW by the end of June 2011, out of which 18,405 MW were added in the first six months of 2011.                         
   According to the estimates by the World Wind Energy Association (WWEA), the worldwide wind capacity reached 215000 MW by the end of June 2011, out of which 18,405 MW were added in the first six months of 2011.                         
   The city's air is 10 times more polluted than is acceptable, according to a recent air and noise pollution study conducted over one year at five major traffic junctions.                         
   The city's air is 10 times more polluted than is acceptable, according to a recent air and noise pollution study conducted over one year at five major traffic junctions.                         
   Sometime next month, on the steaming fringes of an Icelandic volcano, an international team of scientists will begin pumping "seltzer water" into a deep hole, producing a brew that will lock away carbon dioxide forever.                         
   Sometime next month, on the steaming fringes of an Icelandic volcano, an international team of scientists will begin pumping "seltzer water" into a deep hole, producing a brew that will lock away carbon dioxide forever.                         
   Buxa’s bane - low tiger density - may prove to be its boon as foresters hunt for a suitable home for tiger cubs that have been abandoned or orphaned.                         
   Buxa’s bane - low tiger density - may prove to be its boon as foresters hunt for a suitable home for tiger cubs that have been abandoned or orphaned.                         
   The price of the new PlayStation Vita will not be discounted, the head of the domestic unit of Sony's games business said.                         
   The meeting is expected to last all day long and comes a week after Yahoo's board fired Chief Executive Carol Bartz                         
   The success of iPad has dented the demand for PCs' and the eurozone crisis has derailed recovery in PC replacement cycle.                         
   At least 3 threatening messages appeared on the White House Facebook page amid increased terrorist threat alert                         
   Amazon.com Inc is in talks with book publishers where customers would pay an annual fee to access a library of content.                         
   Delicious, a bookmarking service that was popular among the technorati, not with a broader audience is being revamped.                         
   IBM is developing computers using silicon chips by sticking layer after layer of chips covered with tiny components.                         
   Infosys Technologies Executive Co-Chairman Krish Gopalakrishnan said Infosys has not seen clients reducing their budget plan on information technology due to the slowdown in the US and Europe this year.                         
   Infosys Technologies Executive Co-Chairman Krish Gopalakrishnan said Infosys has not seen clients reducing their budget plan on information technology due to the slowdown in the US and Europe this year.                         
   HTC Corp has extended its lawsuit against Apple Inc to include nine more patents the Taiwanese firm acquired from Google Inc last week.                         
   HTC Corp has extended its lawsuit against Apple Inc to include nine more patents the Taiwanese firm acquired from Google Inc last week.                         
   Apple is suing Samsung Electronics in Japan over alleged patent violations relating to the iPhone and iPad, Kyodo news agency said on Thursday.                         
   Apple is suing Samsung Electronics in Japan over alleged patent violations relating to the iPhone and iPad, Kyodo news agency said on Thursday.                         
   China's industry and commerce watchdog has shut down 1,200 websites for selling fake goods, an official said.                         
   China's industry and commerce watchdog has shut down 1,200 websites for selling fake goods, an official said.                         
   Research firm Gartner slashed its growth forecast for the global PC market this year to 3.8 percent from its earlier forecast of 9.3 percent.                         
   Research firm Gartner slashed its growth forecast for the global PC market this year to 3.8 percent from its earlier forecast of 9.3 percent.                         
   What if 3D technology was brought to your mobile phone? If this dream turns to reality, an entirely new species of Smartphones would be born.                    
   Facebook and Google are closing in on Yahoo, in large part because they can offer advertisers more personal information about users.                         
   Facebook and Google are closing in on Yahoo, in large part because they can offer advertisers more personal information about users.                         
   According to sources, both the companies agreed to restructure the contract last month estimated at $800 million-1 billion.                         
   According to sources, both the companies agreed to restructure the contract last month estimated at $800 million-1 billion.                         
   India operations of Yahoo have been fairly steady in recent years but employees are worried about the frequent changes at the global level.                         
   India operations of Yahoo have been fairly steady in recent years but employees are worried about the frequent changes at the global level.                         
   The company is in search for a permanent leader to spearhead a battle in online advertising & content with rivals Google & Facebook.                         
   Real estate developer Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) posted a net profit of Rs 148.55 crores below market expectations.                         
   Exide Industries registered lower net profit of Rs 51.15 crore for the second-quarter (Q2) ended September 30, 2011.                         
   Ajay Sambrani will take charge as the managing director of Sandvik Asia, the Indian subsidiary of the $13-billion Swedish engineering major Sandvik AB, from October 1.                         
   India's best-selling writer to endorse Chinese telecom equipment maker's devices such as smartphones & tablets.                         
   Mohanty will report to Deutsche Bank India CEO Gunit Chadha and to the bank's head of GTB Asia Pacific Lisa Robins.                         
   While women represent about half of the nation's white-collar workers, their numbers thin as one looks up the organizational chart.                         
   While women represent about half of the nation's white-collar workers, their numbers thin as one looks up the organizational chart.                         
   It's small wonder then that CEO tenure has been declining for the past decade down to even four years in some industries .                         
   It's small wonder then that CEO tenure has been declining for the past decade down to even four years in some industries .                         
   ARCIL has selected BS Bhasin, a chief general manager with State Bank of India, as the new MD & CEO of the company.                         
   ARCIL has selected BS Bhasin, a chief general manager with State Bank of India, as the new MD & CEO of the company.                         
   The company, a JV between Sistema of Russia and Shyam Group of India, had posted a net loss of 661.3 crore in the year-ago period.                         
   The company, a JV between Sistema of Russia and Shyam Group of India, had posted a net loss of 661.3 crore in the year-ago period.                         
   Navin Wadhwani is joining Reliance from Rothschild, as the energy major looks to bolster its presence in key businesses.                         
   Navin Wadhwani is joining Reliance from Rothschild, as the energy major looks to bolster its presence in key businesses.                         
   The company had posted a net loss of Rs 661.3 crore for the same quarter of the previous fiscal, SSTL said                         
   The company had posted a net loss of Rs 661.3 crore for the same quarter of the previous fiscal, SSTL said                         
   The reluctance of Indian companies to invest locally stands in sharp contrast to the millions they are sending overseas                         
      The reluctance of Indian companies to invest locally stands in sharp contrast to the millions they are sending overseas                         
   Vodafone Plc is set to pick talented management trainees at its India arm, Vodafone Essar, for multi-year overseas assignments in key markets.                         
   Vodafone Plc is set to pick talented management trainees at its India arm, Vodafone Essar, for multi-year overseas assignments in key markets.                         
   S K Sharma has taken charge as Director of the Bangalore Complex of Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronic Ltd (BEL) on September 1.                         
   S K Sharma has taken charge as Director of the Bangalore Complex of Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronic Ltd (BEL) on September 1.                         
   Citi India's Global Consumer Group on Tuesday announced the appointment of Muge Yuzuak as the Head of Cards, India.                         
   Citi India's Global Consumer Group on Tuesday announced the appointment of Muge Yuzuak as the Head of Cards, India.                         
   The slowing economy seems to have cast its shadow on the Central Board of Direct Taxes' plan to surpass the budget target on tax collections.                         
   Chennai-based Everonn Education, whose founder is in jail, will sell a 12% stake for Rs 138 crore to Dubai-based GEMS Education.                         
   The smelter plant had to shut down 60 of its 931 pots a week ago as coal stocks sank to critical levels.                         
   Indian employers are more upbeat about hiring during the October-December quarter of FY2012 than a year ago.                         
   JSW Steel total annual production capacity is expected to rise to 35.3 million tonnes in 2020 from 14.3 million tonnes this year.                         
   The Indian arm received approval for the second phase of investment of Rs 250 crore from the parent company in Japan.                         
   SAIL may invest up to $6 bn to mine iron ore, railroads and a steel plant in a race with China to lock in raw materials.                         
   Maruti Suzuki, operating in Gurgaon and Manesar will join rivals who are building plants turning it into an upcoming auto hub.                    
   Panasonic India registered total sales of Rs 3,200 crore and is expected to close the current fiscal with Rs 5,500 crore.                         
   In April this year, Pipavav got the go-ahead from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board to build warships.                         
      In August, Audi reported a 100-plus per cent jump in sales to 510 units, as against 250 units in the month-ago period.                         
   In August, Audi reported a 100-plus per cent jump in sales to 510 units, as against 250 units in the month-ago period.                         
   SAIL is executing a wagon factory project at Kulti in West Bengal at a cost of Rs 200 crore, jointly with the Railways.                         
   Lufthansa-led "Star Alliance" network of airlines had rejected Air India's request to become a Star Alliance member.                         
   Samsung has just completed an investment of about Rs.350 crore in its Chennai plant to upgrade capacity.                         
   A JV between Astro Overseas and Turmeric Vision & Mogae Consultants, 24x7 Food Channel in Hindi was launched by Etisalat.                         
   Domestic passenger car sales declined by 10.08% to 144,516 units in August, 2011, from 160,713 units in the same month last year.                         
   Ipca holds 32.3 percent stake in Tonira Pharma as of March 31, according to data.                         
   Sales of trucks and buses, a key pointer to the country's economic activity, rose 22.6 per cent to 64,248 in August.                         
   The definition of 'associate' forms the core of CBI's charges against the brass of Swan Telecom and three executives of the Reliance ADA Group.                         
   Indian Oil Corp has barred Swiss-based Vitol, the world's largest oil trading firm, from participating in its tenders and other state-run refiners may follow suit, three sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.                         
   Indian Oil Corp has barred Swiss-based Vitol, the world's largest oil trading firm, from participating in its tenders and other state-run refiners may follow suit, three sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.                         
   Shree Ganesh Jewellery plans to triple its turnover from the retail business from Rs 400 crore to Rs 1,200 crore in the next two years.                         
   Shree Ganesh Jewellery plans to triple its turnover from the retail business from Rs 400 crore to Rs 1,200 crore in the next two years.                         
   The Rs 5,900 crore Shree Ganesh Jewellery has tied up with Bharti Retail's 'Easy Day' to market its Gaja Lites range of jewelleries.                         
   Sharad Pawar said the 3.2 per cent growth rate is higher than average growth rate of 2.5 per cent in the 10th plan period.                         
   Corporate affairs ministry has dropped 2 IPR-related clauses included in its draft National Competition Policy in July.                         
      The IMF has pared its global growth forecast for the current year and the next year. In its latest World Economic Outlook, it lists multiple risks to the global economy that depress growth further.                         
   Many say that the bill should be broadly acceptable to most political parties and should honour public opinion as well.                         
   ADB said Asia's economies would expand 7.5 per cent this year, down from its 7.8 per cent forecast in April                         
   The dismal factory output growth was on the back of a poor performance by manufacturing, mining and capital goods sectors.                         
   CP Joshi said Road Ministry's efforts of introducing transparency has resulted in robust bids in the roads sector.                         
   Industrial output growth in July slumped a lowest in 2 yrs putting pressure on RBI to pause its monetary tightening.                         
   PM said that for a large road building programme, efficiency, economy, competition and transparency are vital.                         
   Production of tea stood at 123.19 million kg in July 2010, while exports amounted to 16.58 million kg, according to data.                         
   The healthcare sector, he said, was a focus area in the ongoing 11th Plan and efforts will continue in the 12th Plan.                         
   CAG report on AI covers, among other things, the purchase of 111 aircraft for over Rs 40,000 cr. The report said that AI has accumulated debt of Rs 38,000 cr.                         
   The report states that several countries in Asian Pacific regions, including China, Indonesia, Vietnam and Sri Lanka, have made big strides.                         
   Food price index rose 9.55 per cent and the fuel price index climbed 12.55 per cent in the year to Aug. 27, government data on Thursday showed.                         
   Goa, a major exporter of Iron Ore, saw the highest ever exports during the financial year 2010-11 through its twin ports.                         
   Goa, a major exporter of Iron Ore, saw the highest ever exports during the financial year 2010-11 through its twin ports.                         
   A new green-channel facility that will allow hassle-free and expeditious clearance of India’s $600-billion trade will be in place soon                         
   A new green-channel facility that will allow hassle-free and expeditious clearance of India’s $600-billion trade will be in place soon                         
   RBI not to target any specific level for rupee as India does not face a similar situation                         
   RBI not to target any specific level for rupee as India does not face a similar situation                         
   China’s reserves have been built on the back of its huge export earnings while countries in the Middle East have recourse to rich oil reserves.                         
   China’s reserves have been built on the back of its huge export earnings while countries in the Middle East have recourse to rich oil reserves.                         
   Pranab Mukherjee discussed ways to increase tax benefits to the manufacturing sector to attract more overseas investment.                         
   Pranab Mukherjee discussed ways to increase tax benefits to the manufacturing sector to attract more overseas investment.                         
   RBI Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said it has no plan to ban teaser loans but warned that any such product will attract 2 per cent additional provisioning.                         
   US economy grew at a lower than expected pace of two per cent in the three-month period ended September 2011.                         
   IMF beefed up its lending instruments and introduced a new six-month liquidity line, throwing help to countries at risk from the euro zone crisis.                         
   The high level group will start work to see what lessons can be drawn from the crisis and reforms such as those in Britain.                         
   Wen Jiabao recently dashed hopes of any change in the short term, saying housing prices should return to "reasonable levels".                         
   Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao had said China was willing to help US but added that Europe must stop the crisis from growing.                         
   Moody's said BNP's profitability and capital base provides it adequate cushion to support its Greek and other exposures.                         
   Almost 50 national climate funds and 45 carbon markets have been created. There are 6k pvt equity funds for climate change.                         
   Wal-Mart will spend $20 bn on goods from US businesses by women, will also offer retail training programs for woman.                         
   The euro also got hammered, falling at one stage on Monday to $1.3495 its lowest level since the middle of February.                         
   The break-up is expected to be completed by the end of 2012. It is also looking to cut $1 bn in costs related to corporate and administrative expenses.                         
   McGraw-Hill would separate into two public companies, one focused on global markets and the other on education.                         
   Constancio also said he regretted fellow ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark's decision to quit the bank.                         
   Goldman is in talks to buy Tiga Pilar Sekuritas and expects to complete the deal before the end of 2011.                         
   Vickers said he did not expect UK retail banks to "up sticks" and leave the country as a result of the proposals.                         
   Nissan is targeting sales of 5,000 of the new chargers in Japan by the end of March 2016.                         
   Cameron will meet Russian PM Vladimir Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev on a visit to Moscow for less than 24 hours.                         
   The bank had sold 3.5 bn in assets as broader effort to alleviate ongoing concerns over its funding and liquidity.                         
   Britain set up the ICB last year to examine ways to ensure taxpayers do not bear the brunt of future banking crises.                         
   The G7's lack of concrete proposals to turn around the slowing world economy will probably not sway investors.                         
   The G7's lack of concrete proposals to turn around the slowing world economy will probably not sway investors.                         
      Greece is close to intractable and Italy, the third largest economy & biggest bond market is cause of grave concern.                         
   1,000 exhibitors from 32 countries will showcase nearly 90 new auto models, defying fears of another recession.                         
   David Cameron's wife, Samantha was in New York for opening a new branch of the upmarket stationers Smythson.                         
   The resignation of ECB chief economist is a big blow to Angela Merkel who has been deserted by several top allies.                         
   The field off the coast of Azerbaijan could produce billions of cubic feet of natural gas and condensates.                         
   In a boost to bilateral ties, India & UAE signed 2 pacts, including one on combating terrorism in all forms and organised crimes.                         
   Government today assured Anna Hazare that a "strong" Lokpal bill will be brought in the ongoing winter session of Parliament.                         
   ED has asked Naidu to furnish details about their investments and financial transactions, following a direction from AP High Court.                         
   Immediately after the panchayat elections, the state government successfully organised the National Games, Munda said.                         
   Khurshid said the issue will be decided by the magistrate and neither Arun Jaitley nor he can decide outside the court.                         
   Imran Khan said that weaponisation is the only cause behind the current political mess.                         
   The apex court today refused to pass any order on Modi's alleged inaction to contain the 2002 Gujarat riots.                         
   'Payment of pro-rata compensation in 11,615 cases is pending due to non-appearance of claimants'                         
   The MP who is in Tihar Jail in the cash-for-votes scam, has sought interim bail on medical grounds.                         
   'Our demand that an FIR be registered in the riots case and the CBI be handed over the case has been accepted'.                         
   Out of a total available funds of Rs 1916.29 crore only Rs 1379.70 crore was spent affecting the progress of the scheme.                         
   SC has asked a trial court to hear a petition against Modi in the killing of former MP Ehsan Jafri in 2002 Gujarat riots.                         
   'It will difficult to wipe off the blot on Narendra Modi. His character is known to the entire country'.                         
   Comments allegedly made by Kejriwal on Lokpal Bill have not gone down well with Aruna Roy who has been a mentor to him.                         
   The GCTF will consist of a strategic-level coordinating committee, co-chaired initially by the United States and Turkey.                         
   In its memorandum, BJP pointed problems like killings of drivers and burning of loaded trucks by blockade supporters.                         
   'Due to Hazare's crusade, RSS activists, who earlier used to sport black caps, are now wearing the white Gandhi cap'                         
   A private complaint has alleged Kumaraswamy had favoured a iron ore mining company during his tenure as chief minister.                         
   Musharraf was also concerned about the prospects of US troops operating from India to attack Taliban in Afghanistan                         
   Along with Congress workers, the family members sat on a day-long fast opposing the clemency for the three convicts.                         
   States have been asked to enhance strength of security personnel at 21 high courts besides installing safety gadgets.                         
   Due to heavy rains, excess water from the Hirakud dam was released by opening 53 of its 64 sluice gates.                         
   Due to heavy rains, excess water from the Hirakud dam was released by opening 53 of its 64 sluice gates.                         
   A 58 year old man died of his injuries in hospital and four more people are reportedly critical.                         
   Congress President Sonia Gandhi, who returned back today expressed "sorrow" and "anguish" over the Delhi High Court blast.                         
   Maruti’s market share in the passenger car segment has slipped almost 9% to 41.2% at the end of the April-October period of this fiscal.                         
      According to sources, the dealer managed to get details of a particular high-profile client who kept high levels of cash margin in his trading account.                         
   A block deal in Suzlon Energy ltd saw 37.01 million shares, or 2.08 percent, of equity changing hands on NSE at 27.15 rupees a share.                         
   Nalco's per share earnings for July-September quarter reduced by a third compared to a year ago as company's operating expenses rose almost 30%.                         
   Shares of Educomp fell to a 52-week low on Wednesday amid speculation a large public sector insurance firm is cutting its stake in the company.                         
   Ooutlook of the company appears positive given its stronger project execution and likelihood of meeting its capex target.                         
   As expected, the iron ore mining ban in Karnataka really took a toll on the profits of JSW Steel in the September 2011 quarter.                         
   Workers at Moser Baer's Noida facility struck work last week demanding a revision in wages and bonuses.                         
   The Reserve Bank has removed the restriction on FIIs purchasing the shares of Maruti Suzuki India, following the compliance of their prescribed investment limit in the company.                         
   The BSE Sensex dropped for a third straight session on Tuesday, falling 1.77 percent to its lowest close in more than five weeks.                         
   In a declining market, there is nothing else to do but short some of the stocks but most of them have dropped rather sharply.                         
   Patni needs to get past Rs 300-305 to get into some kind of an upside momentum but otherwise this is one stock, which is holding out nicely.                         
   Shares in Franco-Belgian bank Dexia plunged more than 37 per cent in early trade on Tuesday                         
   SBI shares plunged over 4% after Moody's downgraded the country's largest public sector bank’s financial strength rating (BFSR), to D+ from C-.                         
   The 50-share Nifty index ended in deep red but off day’s lows as weak cues from European peers and downgrade of SBI hurt investors’ sentiment.                         
   SBI will always score a little higher because it is completely government owned. It is the biggest bank in the country.                    
   SBI will always score a little higher because it is completely government owned. It is the biggest bank in the country.                         
   Sintex stock is weak and may be it could go down another 10-15 bucks but in this sort of market it is very difficult to use technicals for midcaps.                         
   Exide has not really made a fresh low although other midcaps have. May be commodity prices coming down is positive for Exide.                         
   TVS is just entering a corrective phase, so once it breaks Rs 58 you might see the price going to some kind of declining and corrective mode.                         
   Maruti has done extremely well. In fact if you look at the recent price movement, the stock is going through good base building.                    
   The government must take a call on when it wants to go ahead with a share sale in the state-run Oil & Natural Gas Corp                    
   The BSE Sensex witnessed intense selling pressure as sentiments turned bearish after Moody's downgraded financial strength of State Bank of India.                         
   Investors in State Bank I would presume are long term investors and they would wait for lower levels to add to their position.                         
   Wall Street is in for a volatile week as escalating problems in Europe's debt crisis continue to keep investors on their toes.                         
   Hong Kong shares fell for a third-straight session on Thursday, with mainland property names among the hardest hit in weak turnover.                         
   Bookies expect Europe's main indexes to fall, tracking a sell-off on Wall St after Fitch said the outlook for US banks could worsen.                         
   The TAIEX index closed unchanged at 7,387.81. Powerchip, Taiwan's biggest DRAM maker, shot up 6.43%, with electronics shares 0.67% higher.                         
   Hong Kong shares were poised to post a third straight loss on Thursday, with mainland property names among the hardest hit in low turnover.                         
   Hong Kong stocks fell 0.88 percent in the morning session following losses on Wall Street amid fears of eurozone debt contagion.                         
   London's FTSE 100 stocks index dropped 0.91 percent to 5,467.48 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 shed 0.93 percent to 5,963.86 points.                         
   US stock index futures fell on Wednesday as Europe's debt crisis continued to worry investors and closely watched Italian bond yields rose again.                         
   The Nikkei 225 index at the Tokyo Stock Exchange opened up 116.81 points at 8,631.28 and extended the gain to 1.50 percent in the first 30 minutes of trading.                         
   The net result was that the S&P 500 ended up almost 1 percent on the week after a drop of nearly 4 percent on Wednesday.                         
   The broad-based S&P 500 added 24.14 (1.95 percent) to 1,263.83, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite surged 53.60 (2.04 percent) to 2,678.75.                         
   Italy became the latest focus of a still uncontained crisis that pushed the bond yields of the region's third-largest economy sharply higher this week.                         
   Shares in Extract Resources fell 1.9 percent on Friday after its main shareholder Kalahari Minerals said talks with its state-owned Chinese suitor were centred on a price below investors' expectations.                         
   U.S. stock futures pointed to a weaker open for equities on Wall Street on Wednesday.                         
   European shares looked set to follow Asian equities higher on Wednesday after Italian PM Silvio Berlusconi said he would resign                         
   NOL shares were down 2.7 percent at S$1.095. The broader Straits Times Index was 0.3 percent lower.                         
   Australian shares fell 1.2 percent on Thursday as miners dropped after copper and gold prices fell, while markets were also hurt by a dim outlook from U.S.                         
   Oral hearings are usually attended by the Commission officials handling the case, officials from other arms of the Commission, and representatives from EU countries and third parties affected by the deal.                         
   US stocks eased Wednesday in opening trade after Tuesday's spectacular recovery and finish in the green in the last hour of trade.                         
   European finance ministers are exploring ways to recapitalise the ailing sector amid growing expectation of a Greek debt default.                         
   European shares took another hit on Tuesday on fears Franco-Belgian bank Dexia may need to be rescued due to its exposure to Greek debt.                         
   India's diversified stock funds posted their worst quarterly performance in nearly three years                         
   Banks were among late-gaining shares, with Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group both adding 2 percent.                         
   The CAC 40 index lost 32.19 points to 2,990.47 points, having soared 5.74 percent on Tuesday.                         
   Weak pricing for Citic Securities' Hong Kong share sale and a soft Shanghai debut for Great Wall Motor showed Greater China's IPO markets, while still open, are buckling.                         
   Oil and Natural Gas Corp has withdrawn the papers it filed for a government share sale, but will file the red herring prospectus (RHP) again if instructed.                         
   Gloomy stock markets coupled with apathy of minority investors are forcing promoters to step in to bail out the rights issues of their companies.                         
   The government plans to raise at least a fourth of its Rs 40,000 crore divestment target for the current fiscal from 5 per cent stake sale in ONGC.                         
   A follow-on share sale in state-run explorer ONGC is unlikely to take place this financial year ending March 31, 2012, an oil ministry source said.                         
   The outcome of the case between the SEBI and NSDL relating to an initial public offer scam six years ago could be delayed further.                         
   The foreign investment promotion board has cleared a proposal from Unitech Wireless’ for a rights issue of Rs 8,250 crore.                         
   FIPB cleared the Rs 8,250 cr rights issue proposal of telecom services provider Uninor, in which Norwegian operator Telenor has a majority stake.                         
   Kingfisher will launch a rights issue of up to 20 billion rupees ($398 million) either before March 2012 or in the beginning of 2013.                         
   Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC) has opposed the government proposal to disinvest 10 per cent of its stake, contending stock market conditions do not favour such a move.                         
   Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has shortlisted four banks including Goldman Sachs and Barclays for an initial public offering that is likely to raise $200 million.                         
   The panel will look into ways to cut down on parameters that necessitate refiling of a share sale prospectus by an issuer.                         
   The panel will look into ways to cut down on parameters that necessitate refiling of a share sale prospectus by an issuer.                         
   The second round of warehouses will be at Bangalore, Mumbai and repeats at Chakan, near Pune, and Chennai.                         
   The quantum of funds raised by India Inc through initial public offers and rights issues fell to Rs 3,029.1 crore in September this year.                         
   The six Indian banks that have also submitted bids are ICICI Securities, Enam, Kotak Bank, IDFC Securities, Edelweiss and IDBI Capital.                         
   The price gives Groupon Inc. a market value of $12.7 billion, making its IPO the second largest by an Internet company behind only that of Google Inc. in 2004.                         
   Groupon Inc raised $700 mn after increasing the size of its initial public offering, becoming the largest IPO by an Internet company since Google                         
   Shares in LG Electronics plunged early on Thursday amid market talk that it was planning a rights offer worth some 1 trillion won.                         
   IPO of state- run steel maker Rashtriya Ispat is unlikely to take off in this fiscal due to the present turmoil in financial markets.                         
   SKS Microfinance, India's only publicly listed microfinance company, has received a nod from its board to raise up to 90 bn rupees                         
   India's largest sugar company Bajaj Hindusthan today said it has raised nearly Rs 1,480 crore through a rights issue for repayment of its debt.                         
   On their proposal to raise funds through FPO, Indian Bank Chairman and MD T M Bhasin said the bank was quite "comfortable" with the present capital.                         
   Vaswani Industries plunged to Rs 13, a huge 73% discount against its issue price of Rs 49 per share.                         
   Groupon is grappling with a weak equity market, executive departures and questions about its accounting and business model.                         
   Rights equity issue by SBI will not happen in the current fiscal year, but govt will pump in cash to shore up the state-run bank's capital.                         
   The market is likely to carry this uncertainty for some more time and, therefore, the 10-year bond yield is expected to remain closer to 9% with asofter bias.                         
   Bond yields remained subdued in afternoon trades on Thursday, a day after the RBI said it would buy back bonds worth up to $2 billion from the market.                         
   India has raised the ceiling on FII in government and corporate bonds by $5 billion each, a finance ministry official said on Thursday.                         
   "Asia is continuing to implement positive reforms that are stimulating local-currency bond markets," S &P Executive Managing Director said.                         
   India is likely to announce on Thursday afternoon a decision to raise the ceiling on FII in government and corporate debt, source said.                         
   Indian federal bond yields tumbled on Thursday, a day after the central bank said it would buy back bonds worth up to $2 billion from the market.                         
   The most-traded new 10-year bond yield closed 2 basis points (bps) higher at 8.96 per cent, after moving in a 8.94-8.98 per cent range.                         
   Bond yields were largely steady on Thursday morning as investors stayed on the sidelines ahead of the weekly food and fuel price data due around noon and the sale of the new 10-year paper on Friday.                         
   Indian federal bond yields and swap rates were stuck in a thin range as traders awaited the outcome of meeting between the Finance Ministry and RBI officials.                         
   Religare has already raised Rs 500 cr through non-convertible debentures and might go for an early closure of the issue.                         
   Bond yields were steady to marginally higher on Thursday, tracking an overnight rise in US yields and firm global oil prices.                         
   Bond yields edged up on Thursday morning tracking an overnight rise in US yields and higher global crude oil prices.                         
   Of the 473 crore that has to be paid to bondholders, Wockhardt has deposited 115 crore with the court.                         
   Aditya Birla Capital Advisors, the private-equity arm of the Aditya Birla Group, said on Wednesday it has raised Rs 2.2 billion($48 million) in its second private equity fund .                         
   Housing Development Finance Corp is planning to raise Rs 5 billion through 5-year bonds at 9.65 per cent, a source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday.                         
   Bond yields continued to trade higher in afternoon session on Wednesday tracking their US counterparts and the rise in global crude oil prices.                         
   Shriram Equipment Finance Company, a unit of Shriram Transport Finance Company , is looking to raise Rs 1 billion via 2-,3-year bonds.                         
   Bond yields rose on Wednesday tracking US peers and higher global crude oil prices, while position paring ahead of a $2.4 billion debt sale on Friday also weighed.                         
   Bond yields rose on Wednesday tracking its US counterparts in Asian trade and higher global crude oil prices and as traders trimmed positions ahead of an $2.4 billion debt sale on Friday.                         
   Bond yields edged further up as there was a risk rally globally following the Swiss National Bank's decision to set a minimum exchange rate for the EUR/CHF.                         
   Nuclear Power Corp of India (NPCIL) plans to raise Rs 15 billion via 10-yr and 15-year bonds after the central bank's policy review on Sept. 16.                         
   Steel Authority of India has raised over Rs 4.5 billion so far via 15-year bonds at 9.35 per cent, a company source said.                         
   Bond yields were slightly down in early morning trades on Tuesday as jitters over the global economy pushed up demand for safe-haven government debt.                         
   Religare Enterprises, on Monday said it will mobilise up to Rs 800 crore from a bond issue that opens from September 9-26.                         
   Housing and Urban Development Corp. (HUDCO) is planning to raise Rs 5 billion via 5-year bonds, a company source with direct knowledge of the issue said.                         
   Cash rates hovered around the central bank's lending rate of 8 per cent on Thursday amid subdued demand for funds and low subscription to the central bank's daily repo counter.                         
   Short-term overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates rose on Thursday, while the long-end rates eased slightly as market participants expected the central bank to further tighten its monetary policy.                         
   Cash rates hovered below the central bank's repo rate of 8 per cent on Wednesday as banks preferred to borrow from the CBLO market where funds were available at a lower rate, traders said.                         
   Overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates rose further on Wednesday as dealers started pricing in another rate increase at next week's policy review.                         
   Cash rates remained below the central bank's key lending rate of 8 per cent on Tuesday as demand for funds eased in the second week of the reporting fortnight.                         
   India's overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates on Monday fell to their lowest in nearly two weeks.                         
   Cash rates were steady on Monday, and traders said it is unlikely to move up, as most banks have covered their position last week.                         
   The waxing and waning of "risk perception" has been the enduring theme in the global markets and in India, for sometime.                         
   We expect the 10-year yield to be in 8.25-8.40% range during the week. Liquidity is expected to tighten during the next two weeks on account of outflows because of advance tax payments.                         
   Indian cash rates were little changed on Friday as demand for funds from banks was mostly steady                         
   India's OIS were steady on Tuesday as traders awaited the June quarter economic growth data for cues on the central bank action                         
   The banking system is running short of liquidity by around Rs 50,000 crore and is expected to remain in a deficit mode during the week.                         
   India's OIS rose as the central bank reiterated its anti-inflationary stance leading traders to expect the RBI to remain hawkish                         
   Indian OIS were steady but the long-end was marginally higher tracking govt bond yields as US yields posted a sharp rise overnight.                         
   India's OIS falls, tracking the drop in US yields, but traders paid the 5-year OIS and bought bonds to take advantage of the wide spread                         
   Indian cash rates were changed as cash supply was adequate to meet bank demand for funds amid sharp rise in bids at the repo window                         
   Indian cash rates were little changed on Tuesday as better liquidity ensured banks' demand for funds was easily met.                         
   Indian cash rates were mostly steady on Monday as banks' demand for funds was largely unchanged.                         
   Indian OIS fell with drop in oil prices on expectations that the central bank may pause its rate increase cycle at the policy review.                         
   Long-end one-year overnight indexed swap (OIS) fell sharply on Thursday as sentiment was risk averse owing to concerns of Europe's debt crisis and a decline in oil prices.                         
   Indian overnight indexed swap rates bounced on Wednesday, but the rebound may be temporary.                         
   Overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates ended higher on Tuesday despite a marginal easing of inflation, as last week's sharp decline provided less room for a further downtrend.                         
   Indian cash rates inched up on Tuesday as demand for funds from banks was slightly higher as it is the start of a new reporting fortnight.                         
   Cash rates were slightly higher on Friday as banks borrowed for last minute requirement, but sufficient liquidity to meet demand kept the rates from rising sharply.                         
   Cash rates were slightly higher on Friday as banks borrowed for last minute requirement, but sufficient liquidity to meet demand kept the rates from rising sharply.                         
   A government decision allowing export of one million tonne sugar and lifting the ban on stockholding limit was cheered by the sugar industry.                         
   Speculators and hedgers traded silver worth Rs 38.23 lakh crore, 36% of cumulative turnover valued at Rs 106 lakh crore during April -October.                         
   The institute has developed a low-cost coffee substitute with a similar flavour and aroma but with 70% less caffeine than the normal coffee.                         
   Cotton linter prices have crashed in the domestic market by 66% due to a drop in demand in Chinese and Japanese markets.                         
   Robusta coffee prices have crashed in the global market, following a good harvest in Brazil and the forecast of a good crop in Vietnam.                         
   Oil fell for a third day to its lowest price in more than a week in New York on concern that Europe's debt crisis and slower Asian economic growth will curtail fuel demand.                         
   Mkts are worried about borrowing costs rising to unsustainable levels for France & Spain, even as Italy pledged for fiscal reforms.                         
   The country's imports in the Oct-Dec quarter will be higher than last year's 281 tonnes, said Ajay Mitra, MD with the WGC for India.                         
   Brent crude slipped for a second day on Thursday, staying below $112 on concerns about demand growth, as France and Germany clash over ECB role.                         
   Gold traded steady on Thursday after a 1% drop in the previous session, as markets remain jittery over the euro zone debt crisis.                         
   Gold futures prices declined by 0.45% to Rs 28,866 per 10 grams due to fresh selling by speculators in tandem with a weak trend overseas.                         
   India copper futures are likely to extend previous session's losses following global leads, although a weaker rupee could limit the decline.                         
   Gold declined for a third day, dropping below $1,700 an ounce, as a stronger dollar curbed demand for the metal as an alternative investment.                         
   Coal, iron ore, zinc, bauxite, copper and other minerals are likely to be costlier once the new Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Bill.                         
   World food prices fell for a third month in September, the longest stretch of declines in more than two years, after grain prices slumped.                         
   Onion farmers have come up with a novel way to buy seed that often sells at a huge premium when onion prices spiral.                         
   The service is targeted at the B2B space between bullion dealers and jewellers and would benefit retail jewellers as it would be transparent.                         
   Doubts over Europe's commitment to its plan to expand a rescue fund also caused the dollar to strengthen against the euro, making gold, copper, grains and crude oil more expensive.                         
   CME Group increased the margin requirements on gold and silver as yellow metal recorded a biggest two-day fall in almost three decades on investor selling.                         
   Gold prices rose further at the domestic bullion market here on Friday on continued buying by stockists as well as investors.                         
   Oil prices fell below $89 a barrel Thursday in Asia after a US energy report showed mixed signals about demand.                         
   Gold futures recovered partially afternoon from its lowest level in more than a week following a similar trend overseas.                         
   UBS has raised its average gold price forecasts, citing a mark-to-market revision and also expectations of a strong fourth quarter price environment.                         
   It is also likely that rising wealth in those two countries creates additional demand as owning gold can be seen as a status symbol.                         
   India gold futures recovered partially on Thursday afternoon from its lowest level in more than a week following a similar trend overseas and aided by a weaker rupee.                    
   Tata Sons will infuse Rs 500 crore into the group’s real estate arm, Tata Housing Development Company, through a fresh issue of equity shares.                         
   Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has demolished 17 flats constructed unauthorisedly at the Commonwealth Games Village in east Delhi.                         
   Portman Holdings, has bought out ICICI Ventures' stake in an on-going housing project of the Pune-based Kolte Patil Developers Ltd.                         
   JP Morgan Global Fund has picked up 45% shareholding in a Nitesh Estates' firm for $40 million, in a rare pure play private equity deal.                         
   Realty firm Unitech today said it has sold over 300 housing units worth Rs 250 crore under a recently launched project at Gurgaon.                         
   An apartment located in the prime area of Pedder Road, was sold for Rs 53 crore at an average cost of Rs 88,300 per square foot.                         
   Mapletree India China, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings, has acquired 100% stake in a Bangalore tech park for Rs 800 cr.                         
   Cooperative housing societies that are supposed to be a boon for the not-so-rich to own a plot or an apartment in cities seem to have become den of illegal dealings in Karnataka.                         
   Promoters of Lebara Group have acquired a property which will be managed as a four-star hotel by Indian Hotels Company.                         
   Realty developer Housing Development and Infrastructure has put nearly 5 million sq ft of land parcels at Virar near Mumbai.                         
      The 1.36 million sq ft IT park, partly occupied by Computer Sciences Corp, is one of the non-core assets DLF was planning to monetise to reduce its growing debt.                         
   According to the bill, rehabilitation and resettlement provisions will apply only when private firms buy land for a project.                         
   According to the bill, rehabilitation and resettlement provisions will apply only when private firms buy land for a project.                         
   Real estate sources say the deal has raised eyebrows for the simple reason that the building has been purchased by a sole individual.                         
   Real estate sources say the deal has raised eyebrows for the simple reason that the building has been purchased by a sole individual.                         
   If the bill is passed and implemented, there cannot be any planned development of townships in the country, said Amrapali Group CMD.                         
   If the bill is passed and implemented, there cannot be any planned development of townships in the country, said Amrapali Group CMD.                         
   Rentals for restaurants have gone up 40-45% over the last 1-1/2 year, and for a number of standalone restaurants, it is getting unsustainable                         
   Rentals for restaurants have gone up 40-45% over the last 1-1/2 year, and for a number of standalone restaurants, it is getting unsustainable                         
   The problems of falling sales and rising inventory have forced builders across the country to work with each other in unison                         
   Industry body Assocham on Tuesday sought the government should review the Land Acquisition Bill.                         
   Industry body Assocham on Tuesday sought the government should review the Land Acquisition Bill.                         
   The CBI, probing the Adarsh Housing Society scam, will soon examine Union minister Vilasrao Deshmukh.                         
   The CBI, probing the Adarsh Housing Society scam, will soon examine Union minister Vilasrao Deshmukh.                         
   Competition experts say, a major flaw in CCI's argument is embedded in its handling of the first step of three-step process: defining 'relevant mkt'.                         
   Gold and silver prices regained some of the lost ground today on the back of fresh buying by stockists and speculators, driven by a firm trend overseas.                         
   Here are some very sound reasons as to why you should adorn at least a part of your portfolio with the yellow metal.                         
   John A Paulson, a hedge fund manager who sprang to fame when the housing market collapsed, personally made about $5 billion in 2010 by buying gold, according to two investors in his company.                         
   Demand for gold was strong in India during 2010 despite an escalation in prices as consumers saw the yellow metal as a safe investment which could protect them from economic uncertainty.                         
   Demand for gold was strong in India during 2010 despite an escalation in prices as consumers saw the yellow metal as a safe investment which could protect them from economic uncertainty.                         
   India's gold demand will take a hit as increasingly prosperous rural consumers switch to other investment options and step up spending on discretionary items.                    
   India's gold demand will take a hit as increasingly prosperous rural consumers switch to other investment options and step up spending on discretionary items.                         
   India's gold demand will take a hit as increasingly prosperous rural consumers switch to other investment options and step up spending on discretionary items.                         
   Gold has literally got an added sheen over the last three years worldwide, with people opting for the yellow metal as a safe investment option.                    
   Gold has literally got an added sheen over the last three years worldwide, with people opting for the yellow metal as a safe investment option.                    
   Gold has literally got an added sheen over the last three years worldwide, with people opting for the yellow metal as a safe investment option.                         
   Gold consumption rose by more than a third in the second quarter of 2010 on the year.                    
   Gold consumption rose by more than a third in the second quarter of 2010 on the year.                    
   Gold consumption rose by more than a third in the second quarter of 2010 on the year.                         
   After a year of record demand, gold is getting tepid reviews from top US wealth managers who say it is no longer the safe haven.                    
   After a year of record demand, gold is getting tepid reviews from top US wealth managers who say it is no longer the safe haven.                    
   After a year of record demand, gold is getting tepid reviews from top US wealth managers who say it is no longer the safe haven.                         
   Gold declined in London after a rally to a record on a weakening dollar prompted some investors to sell bullion.                    
   Gold declined in London after a rally to a record on a weakening dollar prompted some investors to sell bullion.                    
   Gold declined in London after a rally to a record on a weakening dollar prompted some investors to sell bullion.                         
   After being a laggard initially silver has rallied sharply in the past three months, edging out all other widely available investment options.                    
   After being a laggard initially silver has rallied sharply in the past three months, edging out all other widely available investment options.                    
   After being a laggard initially silver has rallied sharply in the past three months, edging out all other widely available investment options.                         
   Gold prices surged 3 per cent to an all-time high late in New York session on Thursday, the biggest one-day rise since early 2009.                    
   "The decisions in the winter session of the Parliament are going to be crucial for the market," said Ritesh Jain, Canara Robeco Asset Management.                         
   "Once we get past 5400-5450 then you would see real momentum happening in the high beta names and high beta stocks," said Mitesh Thacker.                         
   Broking houses have not revised their rating on the Infosys stock although the IT bellwether reported better-than-expected results.                         
   While a mild uptrend may be on, essentially this stability shows that the market is consolidating before it makes a downswing again.                         
   Indian equities may have shrugged off the latest increase in policy rates, but the outlook for the markets remains cautious.                         
   Religare Mutual Fund has raised exposure to IT, mid-cap finance and telecom firms, which are better insulated against high interest rates.                         
   While a mild uptrend may be on, essentially this stability shows that the market is consolidating before it makes a downswing again.                         
   Stock markets, which are likely to witness small gains this week, will take cues from overseas developments and outcome of the FOMC meeting.                         
   According to data available with the SEBI, FIIs off-loaded stocks worth $258.87 million during the week ended Sep 16.                         
   State-run oil & gas explorer ONGC was the top gainer with its mkt value surging by Rs 10,993.8 cr to Rs 2,35,019.04 cr, as on last Friday's trade.                         
   Stock markets, which are likely to witness small gains this week, will take cues from overseas developments, including the US housing market reports and outcome of the FOMC meeting scheduled for Tuesday.                         
   This week saw the Reserve Bank of India hiking key interest rates by another 25 basis point to 8.25%.                         
   State-run oil & gas explorer ONGC was the top gainer with its mkt value surging by Rs 10,993.8 cr to Rs 2,35,019.04 cr, as on last Friday's trade.                         
   For Indian banks, facing pressure on profitability, the latest bout of rate increase by the Reserve Bank of India could well accentuate such pressures.                         
   For Indian banks, facing pressure on profitability, the latest bout of rate increase by the Reserve Bank of India could well accentuate such pressures.                         
   Gas distribution cos have witnessed an unwavering and growing investor confidence even though the overall equity markets are in doldrums.                         
   The markets had a rollercoaster ride so far this week with benchmarks oscillating sharply between key psychological levels.                         
   Abhishek Agarwal, Director, Fortune Interfinance, talks to ET Now on credit policy.                         
   MSCI is a leading provider of investment decision support tools to worldwide clients from large pension plans to boutique hedge funds                         
   Implied volatility has shot up, with a key index surging 20% in three sessions. This reflects nervousness over the developing global macro crisis.                         
   In this week, the Nifty witnessed a gap down opening on Monday and has been trading in narrow range of 4900-5040 with high level of volatility.                         
   Efficient market hypothesis maintains that the financial markets are information efficient; the prices of traded assets already reflect.                         
   RBI has taken an anti inflationary stand in '10. The emphasis on growth has slipped from 'not hampering growth' to 'at the cost of growth'                         
   RBI had projected real GDP to grow at 8% during FY12, based on the assumption that crude oil prices would average at $110/barrel                         
   Enthused by its high growth prospects, a majority of analysts have initiated 'BUY' recommendation on Hindustan Unilever Ltd.                         
   Asia markets trade mostly lower, with energy and banking stocks among notable decliners, amid ongoing concerns over Europe’s debt crisis.                                            
   Selected Australian companies could see earnings as much as triple if the U.S. economy picks up, although some analysts argue it’s too early to make that call.                                            
   With Black Friday looming, retailers’ fight to get consumers’ attention and their wallet share is getting more intense than ever.                                            
   A pan-European stock index ends marginally lower on Thursday, falling for a sixth consecutive trading session after comments from euro-zone leaders disappoint investors.                                            
   Britain’s benchmark stock index ends a ninth straight day in the red after German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismisses calls for euro bonds.                                            
   Wall Street slides in thin pre-holiday trading as a weak German bond auction heightens concern over Europe’s debt crisis.                                            
   The euro has withstood punch after punch, and there’s likely more to its resilience than repatriation flows by troubled banks.                                            
   Time was that Israel’s national carrier, El Al, was state-owned, and if its citizens wanted phones, they applied to a government bureaucracy because the phone company hadn’t yet been set up. Fast forward to Wednesday’s earnings reports from El Al and Partner, hurt by sharp competition.                                            
   Europe stocks get a lift after an unexpected rise in a measure of German business confidence unexpectedly rose, taking a news of a Portugal downgrade in stride.                                            
   Most Asian equity markets move between small gains and losses on Thursday, although Japanese shares fall sharply.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
   This is a Real-time headline. These are breaking news, delivered the minute it happens, delivered ticker-tape style. Visit www.marketwatch.com or the quote page for more information about this breaking news.                                            
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Oil futures ticked higher in Nymex electronic trading in Asia on Friday. Crude for January delivery  rose 30 cents to $96.47 a barrel. "Oil prices remain largely range-bound with the tug-of-war between solid fundamentals and faltering macroeconomic picture continuing," said commodity-sector strategists at Barclays Capital.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Hong Kong shares fell sharply in early trading on Friday, with investors pushing the Hang Seng Index  down 1.7% to 17,642.00 with no let up in Europe's debt problems in sight. Banks and energy firms were lower, with Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  down 1.2% and Jiangxi Copper Co.  shares down 2.2%. On Thursday, France, Germany and Italy said that they respect the independence of the European Central Bank, Germany again criticized calls for euro bonds, and both Portugal and Hungary saw a ratings downgrade.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Japan's core consumer price index fell 0.1% in October, according to data out Friday. The data matched economist expectations, according to figures compiled by Dow Jones Newswires. Last month, the index rose 0.2%.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Australian energy firm Woodside Petroleum Ltd.   shares dropped on Friday, trading down 5.6%. The firm narrowed its 2011 production target to between 63 and 64 million barrels of oil equivalent, toward the higher end of its 62 to 64 MMboe guidance range. The firm has also set a 2012 production target of 73 to 81 MMboe. Its underlying business is expected to produce 56 to 60 MMboe while its Pluto train 1 is expected to produce 17 to 21 MMboe, it said.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Japanese stocks edged lower in early trading Friday, after U.S. markets were closed for a holiday.  The Nikkei Stock Average  fell 0.1% to 8,156.75. Some exporters were weak, with Citizen Holdings Ltd.  down 1.5% and Casio Computer Ltd.  off by 1.2%. Financial firms mostly traded lower, with Shinsei Bank Ltd.  down 1.3% and Credit Saison Ltd.  off 2.3%.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch)-- Australian shares fell in early trading Friday, with retail and media firms among the worst performers, after U.S. markets were closed for a holiday. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200  shed 0.9% to 4,009.00. The index has traded down for the past five sessions as concerns about Europe's debt crisis and the impact on global growth weighed on sentiment. Retailers extended previous session losses, with department store David Jones Ltd.  down 2.5% and Myer Holdings Ltd.  off by 3%. Media stocks were mostly weaker, with Fairfax Media Ltd.  losing 1.9% and Ten Network Holdings Ltd.  down 1.1%.      Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Moody's Investors Service said late Thursday that it has downgraded Hungary's government bond rating one notch to Ba1 while retaining a negative outlook on the bonds. Moody's said that key elements of the decision to downgrade included "rising uncertainty surrounding the country's ability to meet its medium-term targets for fiscal consolidation and public sector debt reduction" as well as "increased susceptibility to event risk" given external market volatility.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- The European Central Bank is considering extending the period of its loans to banks to two or three years, according to a report published Thursday. The ECB may take the step to try to avoid a credit crisis across the euro zone, according to Reuters, which cited unnamed sources familiar with the matter. So far, the longest loan term the ECB has offered is one year, said Reuters. The news service said ECB officials had suggested longer loan terms to banks at a meeting last week. The pan-European stock index, the Stoxx Europe 600 , closed down a fraction Thursday, buffeted by Fitch Ratings' downgrade of Portugal's credit rating to junk status and German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissing talk of issuing euro bonds. The index is down more than 5% this week.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    FRANKFURT (MarketWatch) -- Italy's 10-year government bond yield edged above 7% again on Thursday, highlighting worries about the third-largest euro-zone economy's ability to meet its funding needs. The 10-year yield  rose 18 basis points to 7.01%, according to FactSet Research. Italy's yield curve inverted this week, a development widely viewed as a sign of distress in credit markets. Italy's five-year bond yield  rose 31 basis points to 7.38%. The euro  edged lower versus the dollar to trade at $1.3327, down 0.2% from Wednesday.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    FRANKFURT (MarketWatch) -- Germany, France and Italy respect the European Central Bank's independence and won't make demands on the institution as they take steps to address the euro-zone debt crisis, French President Nicolas Sarkozy told reporters after meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti in Strasbourg, France. Sarkozy said Germany and France would propose treaty changes aimed at strengthening sanctions against members that violate euro-zone rules before a Dec. 9 summit. Merkel again criticized calls for the issuance of euro bonds, saying that common interest rates for all euro-zone borrowers would send the "wrong signal." Monti affirmed that he would stick to the previous government's plan to balance Italy's budget by 2013.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    LONDON (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Air France-KLM  rallied 9% in Paris trading Thursday and was one of the top gainers in the Stoxx Europe 600 index . Societe Generale upgraded its rating on the airline to hold from sell after the recent selloff in the stock. Air France-KLM's shares have dropped 31% so far this month. The broker warned, however, that "significant uncertainties remain, both macro and company specific, and we believe there remains downside risk to consensus forecasts."  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    FRANKFURT (MarketWatch) -- Fitch Ratings on Thursday cut Portugal's sovereign credit rating to BB-plus from BBB-minus, putting the country's rating in junk status. The rating carries a negative outlook, which means a further cut is possible. "The country's large fiscal imbalances, high indebtedness across all sectors, and adverse macroeconomic outlook mean the sovereign's credit profile is no longer consistent with an investment-grade rating," Fitch said in a news release. The ratings firm said recession will make the government's deficit-cutting plan more challenging and will hurt bank asset quality, but that the government's commitment to the plan was "strong." The Portugal PSI 20 index is up 0.2% to 5,241.26, underperforming other European stock markets.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    MADRID (MarketWatch) -- Trade unions in Portugal staged a 24-hour strike on Thursday, to protest austerity measures the government agreed to in exchange for an international bailout earlier this year. Transportation services were expected to be particularly hard hit. The website of Lisbon's metro, Metropolitano de Lisboa, said there would be no service at all Thursday, while CP-Comboios de Portugal, the country's rail operator, said on its website that there would be disruptions to some services. The country's airport operator, ANA Aeroportos de Portugal, said passengers should directly contact their airline to confirm the status of flights. Media reports said government offices, schools, postal delivery and other public services would also likely see disruptions.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    MADRID (MarketWatch) -- European stock markets extended gains on Thursday after Germany's Ifo business confidence index unexpectedly rose, ending four straight months of declines. The Stoxx Europe 600 index  rose nearly 1% to 222.36, with banks and miners leading gains. The German DAX 30 index  rose 1.5% to 5,541.91, while the French CAC 40 index  rose 1.6% to 2,867.02. The FTSE 100 index  gained 0.6% to 5,171.88.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    FRANKFURT (MarketWatch) -- The Ifo Institute on Thursday said its November index of German business confidence unexpectedly rose to 106.6 from 106.4 in October, ending a four-month streak of declines. Economists had forecast the index to fall to 105.1. The Munich-based institute's current conditions index was unchanged at 116.7, while the expectations index, which measures attitudes toward business prospects over the next six months, rose to 97.3 from 97.0. "The German economy is still performing relatively well despite  the international turmoil," said Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn. The index is based on around 7,000 monthly survey responses from frims in the manufacturing, construction, wholesale and retail sectors, the institute said.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- China, no longer worried about inflows of hot money, is set to lower the amount of funds banks are required to set aside as reserves at the central bank, according to one analyst, who said the development is reason to be upbeat on Chinese markets. Jefferies strategist Sean Darby in Hong Kong said he's been bullish on Chinese markets since Nov. 7 in expectation of a drop in working-capital funding costs. China, he said, is setting the stage for a lowering of banks' required reserves - a monetary adjustment tool which is used to regulate credit growth. Expect private investment in productivity-enhancing equipment to emerge as a new profit driver as a result of the changes, Darby said.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    TEL AVIV (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Raiffeisen Bank International AG,   the Vienna financial-services firm, were up 6% on Thursday. The company reported third-quarter net income fell 58% but still beat analysts' estimates. Consolidated third-quarter profit was 130 million euros ($173.7 million) against €311 million in the year-earlier period. The result surpassed the average estimate of €99 million in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. Revenue from interest on loans fell 8.9% to €566 million. Net provisions for impairment losses were €71 million, up 23% from the third quarter of 2010. Most markets saw lower provisions but in Hungary they doubled, Raiffeisen said. The company is aiming for a medium-term return on equity of 15%, it said. And the firm said it might see a goodwill impairment on its investment in a bank in Ukraine.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    MADRID (MarketWatch) -- European stock markets got off to a firmer start on Thursday, in the absence of U.S. markets, which are closed for the Thanksgiving Day holiday. The Stoxx Europe 600 index  rose 0.4% to 221.28, led by mining stocks such as Rio Tinto PLC , up 1.1%. Siemens AG , up 1% after Societe Generale added the group to its SG Premium list. The French CAC 40 index  rose 1% to 2,852.08, while the German DAX 30 index  rose 1.1% to 5,513.74. The FTSE 100 index  rose 0.2% to 5,149.71.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    TEL AVIV (MarketWatch) -- AT&T Inc.  and Deutsche Telekom AG    withdrew their applications to the Federal Communications Commission regarding their effort to combine AT&T and DT's U.S. unit, T-mobile. In a Thursday statement, the companies said they would focus on gaining antitrust clearance for the sale from the U.S. Justice Department. And AT&T said it would take a $4 billion charge -- $3 billion cash and $1 billion on the book value of spectrum -- in the fourth quarter to reflect potential deal-breakup payments to DT if the deal does not go through. The moves follow the FCC's decision to hold an administrative hearing on the merger, which has hit opposition on grounds that it would hurt competition in the U.S. wireless-phone sector. The $39 billion cash-and-stock deal was announced last March. The companies said they would seek antitrust clearance through their current litigation in U.S. District Court in Washington or through other means. "As soon as practical," the companies "intend to seek the necessary FCC approval," they said.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- Credit Suisse analysts said Thursday the weakness in HSBC's preliminary Chinese Purchasing Managers' Index may have exaggerated the true pace of the manufacturing slowdown in mainland China, even as they acknowledged domestic demand had likely weakened since September. A separate, government-sponsored PMI, which tends to be more weighted towards conditions in large state-owned enterprises, is likely to show a moderation from levels in October, though "we do not think the result will be as drastic" as the HSBC results, Credit Suisse analyst Dong Tao said in a note released Thursday.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- Hong Kong property developers are looking to increase property sales to raise funds amid tighter financing conditions that signal the end of cheap credit to the sector, according to Barclays Capital. "The increase in primary projects offered to the market in November suggests that developers are increasingly becoming aware of the rising cost of credit and [are] looking to increase their property sales to bring in cash," said Barclays analysts in a note released Wednesday in Hong Kong. Barclays said there was a "significant contraction in availability and re-pricing of corporate credit" as European banks withdraw from the Hong Kong loan market, stepping down their presence in the region.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- China's central bank confirmed Wednesday it had lowered the reserve requirement ratio for six rural banks in Zhejiang province, cutting the ratio of funds that need to be set aside with the People's Bank of China as reserves to 16% from 16.5%, effective Friday. The adjustment rolls back a 0.5% penalty that was levied on the banks following a review last November. The PBOC was cited as saying in a report by the state-run Xinhua news agency that the reserve ratio was increased last year as a way of punishing banks for not lending enough to rural farming businesses. The lowering of the reserve requirment shouldn't be seen as a policy easing move, the report quoted the PBOC as saying.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    LOS ANGELES (MarketWatch) -- Hong Kong stocks added to recent losses in early Thursday trading, with the Hang Seng Index  down 0.9% at 17,709.85, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index fell 0.7%, and on the Chinese mainland, the Shanghai Composite  lost 0.8%. With a state media report downplaying chances for further monetary policy easing, policy-sensitive property shares traded lower, with Henderson Land Development Co.  down 1.9%, and Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  off 1%. While most banks were outperforming the Hang Seng Index, poor results at a German bond auction overnight fueled European debt fears and sent HSBC Holdings PLC   -- the top-weighted stock on the benchmark index -- falling 1.1%. Demand concerns also hit airlines, with China Eastern Airlines Corp.    losing 2.1%, and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.   down 2.6%.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    LOS ANGELES (MarketWatch) -- Japanese stocks markets returned from a one-day holiday to sharp selling Thursday, as deepening European debt concerns and heavy losses on Wall Street overnight sent exporter and resource shares lower. In early moves, the Nikkei Stock Average  fell 1.7% to 8,172.34, while the Topix also dropped 1.7%. Sony Corp.   fell 2.7%, Nintendo Co.  lost 2.6%, Advantest Corp.   dropped 2.8%, and Fujitsu Ltd.   traded down 2.3%. Resource stocks also weakened, as Japan Petroleum Exploration Co.   fell 2.6%, and steel maker JFE Holdings Inc.   dropped 3.1%. Shares of Honda Motor Co.   dropped 2.1%, as the Nikkei business daily reported the company plans to reorganize its sport utility vehicle operations in North America, with a nearly $300 million investment. Stock in Olympus Corp.   traded 10.5% higher after the company scheduled its overdue earnings release for Dec. 14.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SYDNEY (MarketWatch) -- Australian stocks started Thursday on a weak note, with the S&P/ASX 200 index down 0.2% at 4,044.00. The index has shed 4.9% over the past four trading sessions, a period marked by heightened concerns about Europe's debt crisis and its potential impact on global economic growth. Retailers were weak on Thursday, with department store retailer David Jones Ltd.  down 4.4% after releasing a trading update. Elsewhere in the sector, Myer Holdings Ltd.  fell 1.2% and Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd.  lost 2.6%.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Brazil's national petroleum agency has suspended Chevron's drilling activity in the South American country after a drilling accident in a field operated by Chevron Corp.  caused a spill northeast of the Rio de Janeiro coast earlier this month. Brazil's Agencia Nacional do Petroleo said in a press release Wednesday drilling in the Frade field is suspended, adding that its decision also halts all drilling by Chevron's Brazilian subsidiary. Chevron has estimated approximately 2,400 barrels of oil have spilled since the Nov. 9 incident. Brazilian authorities on Monday fined Chevron $28 million for causing the spill.     Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stocks on Wednesday finished steeply lower, with the S&P 500  down for a sixth day, after a German debt auction drew soft demand. "They only sold half their bonds, that goes to the heart of Europe, as Germans are already reluctant to bail out the rest of Europe," said Mark Coffelt, portfolio manager of the Empiric Core Equity Fund. The Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 236.17 points, or 2.1%, to close at 11,257.55. In its longest losing streak since early August, the S&P 500 declined 26.25 points, or 2.2%, to 1,161.79. The Nasdaq Composite Index  fell 61.20 points to 2,460.08.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- A 5.9 magnitude earthquake struck near Japan's Honshu coast Wednesday at 11:24 a.m. Pacific time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The quake, which occured at 4:24 a.m. local time, was located 62 miles east-southeast of Fukushima, Japan, and 153 miles northeast of Tokyo, at a depth of 23 miles.  Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Crude-oil futures settled nearly 2% lower Wednesday as investors eschewed investments considered risky on fears of a global slowdown amid a failed bond auction for Germany. Oil for January delivery lost $1.84, or 1.9%, to end at $96.17 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Mixed macroeconomic data from the U.S. and China, and a higher U.S. dollar contributed to oil's fall.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
    SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Gold futures settled modestly lower Wednesday as a failed bond auction for Germany sent investors scrambling for cash, the dollar, and U.S. bonds. Gold for December delivery  declined $6.50, or 0.4%, to end at $1,695.90 an ounce. Gold has failed to attract safe-haven buying and has tracked U.S. stocks in recent sessions, and concerns about the euro zone crimped assets considered risky like equities and commodities.   Market Pulse Stories are Rapid-fire, short news bursts on stocks and markets as they move. Visit MarketWatch.com for more information on this news.                                             
   With Black Friday looming, retailers’ fight to get consumers’ attention and their wallet share is getting more intense than ever.                                            
   We are the drivers of our finances, the owner of a vehicle that we want to carry us to our goal. But investing is a twisting road — know the speed limit.                                            
   MarketWatch columnist Jeanette Pavini writes today about the Gold Star Wives, a group of widows who have not only lost their spouses who served in the military, but also their annuity payouts from their Survivor Benefits Plan.                                            
   Visits to retail clinics, which offer vaccinations and treatments for common, minor health problems beyond the traditional weekday hours kept by most doctors’ offices, increased 10-fold from 2007 to 2009.                                            
   The mood remains at relatively low levels, as the consumer is somewhat cheered by lower gas prices but concerned about stock-market volatility.                                            
   Rates on adjustable-rate mortgages hit record lows, while the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell below 4% again this week, according to Freddie Mac’s weekly survey of conforming mortgage rates.                                            
   WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -- A gauge of consumer sentiment reached 64.1 in the final reading for November -- the highest reading since June -- compared with 60.9 in October, according to Wednesday reports on the data from the University of Michigan and Thomson Reuters. A preliminary reading for November pegged the gauge at 64.2. Economists polled by MarketWatch had expected a final November result of 65, with consumers somewhat cheered by lower gas prices, but concerned about stock volatility. The sentiment gauge, which covers how consumers view their personal finances as well as business and buying conditions, averaged about 87 in the year before the start of the most recent recession. Economists watch sentiment data to get a feel for the direction of consumer spending. A separate report from the government on Wednesday showed that personal consumption spending slowed down in October.                                            
   New applications for regular state unemployment-insurance benefits ticked higher, according to the latest weekly data, rising 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 393,000, the Labor Department reported Wednesday.                                            
   WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -- Data on consumer sentiment for November are due for release at 9:55 a.m. from the University of Michigan and Thomson Reuters. Economists polled by MarketWatch expect a final November reading of 65, compared with a preliminary estimate of 64.2, with consumers somewhat cheered by lower gas prices, but concerned about stock volatility. In October sentiment reached 60.9. The sentiment gauge, which covers how consumers view their personal finances as well as business and buying conditions, averaged about 87 in the year before the start of the most recent recession. Economists watch sentiment data to get a feel for the direction of consumer spending. A separate report from the government on Wednesday showed that personal consumption spending slowed down in October.                                            
   WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -- New applications for regular state unemployment-insurance benefits ticked higher in latest weekly data, rising 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 393,000, the Labor Department reported Wednesday. Economists polled by MarketWatch had expected a level of 390,000 for the week ended Nov. 19. Claims for the prior week were revised to 391,000 from an earlier estimate of 388,000. The average of new claims over the past four weeks, a smoother gauge than the volatile weekly number, fell 3,250 to 394,250, reaching the lowest level since early April. Continuing claims rose 68,000 to 3.69 million in the week ended Nov. 12. The four-week average for these claims fell 2,250 to 3.67 million, the lowest level since October 2008. A total of 6.73 million people received some kind of state or federal benefit in the week ended Nov. 5, down 45,000 from the prior week.                                            
   Retail stocks such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sears Holdings Corp. and Target Corp. are among the shares that could see active trading during a holiday-shortened session on “Black Friday.”                                            
   Several developments on the M&A front stand out on the eve of Thanksgiving, with Deere’s results on tap.                                            
   TiVo, Pandora Media and Deere are among stocks expected to be active Wednesday morning.                                            
   The latest move by Netflix seems likely to capture investors’ attention early Tuesday.                                            
   Among the stocks that could see active trade in Tuesday’s session are Campbell Soup, Chico’s and Cracker Barrel                                            
   A hodgepodge of corporate announcements to start the Thanksgiving week.                                            
   Several companies whose stocks advanced on Friday, including Marvell Technology Group, Dole Food Co. and MTS Systems Corp., could see their momentum sustained in Monday trading.                                            
   Dividend increases vie with tech-sector earnings for the early attention of investors Friday.                                            
   Among the stocks that could see active trade in Friday’s session are  Salesforce.com, Dr Pepper Snapple, Nike and Shanda Games.                                            
   Another handful of companies get busy in corporate debt market.                                            
   Shares of eBay rise Wednesday evening, winning back some of the dayside losses that arrived ahead of the start of the holiday shopping season.                                            
   MarketWatch’s daily rundown of shares making sizable moves in the U.S. stock market.                                            
   Retail stocks such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sears Holdings Corp. and Target Corp. are among the shares that could see active trading during a holiday-shortened session on “Black Friday.”                                            
   Tech stocks take it on the chin ahead of Thanksgiving Day holiday in U.S.                                            
   A report that Microsoft has joined with the private equity firms in looking at Yahoo’s books is giving some investors pause, writes Therese Poletti.                                            
   Despite strong quarterly results, online radio company’s shares hit on potential for slight earnings, revenue miss                                            
   The plan calls for saving 1 billion euros in annual costs by 2013 for the network gear-making joint venture between Nokia and Siemens.                                            
   China International Capital Corp. warns that banks are likely to see an increasing number of loans go bad during the first half of 2012, due in part to the scarcity of credit available to small and medium enterprises, reports Caixin Online.                                            
   TiVo, Pandora Media and Deere are among stocks expected to be active Wednesday morning.                                            
   Plans to sell stock and debt, along with a view toward losses, is adding to investors’ sense of negativity for a company once known for its innovations.                                            
   We are the drivers of our finances, the owner of a vehicle that we want to carry us to our goal. But investing is a twisting road — know the speed limit.                                            
   Most investors don’t know it yet, but the way they buy and sell mutual funds has just changed -- maybe for the better.                                            
   Morningstar's new mutual-fund ratings grade more than just past performance, and that's good for investors, Marketwatch Columnist Chuck Jaffe says.                                            
   The first ETF to focus on social media companies is on the market. But all investors in Global X Social Media Index are getting is the Stupid Investment of the Week, writes Chuck Jaffe.                                            
   The end of an era is frequently bittersweet, and certainly that’s the case with Bill Miller, the philosopher-turned-investor who, for almost three decades, has run the flagship Legg Mason Value Trust fund.                                            
   Heading into 2012, individual investors need to rebuild their frayed and flawed relationship with stocks and stock funds.                                            
   A new ETF emphasizing dividends has joined a glut of competitors, but this one may have an advantage or two, writes John Prestbo.                                            
   Chuck Jaffe comments on a mutual fund that highlights the difference between what funds are selling and what investors need and ultimately get.                                            
   If the U.S. is the cleanest shirt in the global laundry basket, then a case can be made for investing in U.S. stocks until other countries apply stain remover to their economies.                                            
   When investors at last shift their focus back to the U.S. economy, they may be pleasantly surprised by what they find, writes Conrad de Aenlle.                                            
   With Black Friday looming, retailers’ fight to get consumers’ attention and their wallet share is getting more intense than ever.                                            
   Most Asian equity markets move between small gains and losses on Thursday, although Japanese shares fall sharply.                                            
   As we gear up for what will likely be a tumultuous 2012, with a hotly contested national election, let’s pause and remember why the debate is so passionate: America is worth saving. Let’s give thanks.                                            
   Shares of eBay rise Wednesday evening, winning back some of the dayside losses that arrived ahead of the start of the holiday shopping season.                                            
   MarketWatch’s daily rundown of shares making sizable moves in the U.S. stock market.                                            
   Retail stocks such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sears Holdings Corp. and Target Corp. are among the shares that could see active trading during a holiday-shortened session on “Black Friday.”                                            
   Canadian stocks trade sharply lower early Wednesday, as a disappointing German bond auction and weak Chinese manufacturing data weighed on investors.                                            
   Tech stocks take it on the chin ahead of Thanksgiving Day holiday in U.S.                                            
   A report that Microsoft has joined with the private equity firms in looking at Yahoo’s books is giving some investors pause, writes Therese Poletti.                                            
   Despite strong quarterly results, online radio company’s shares hit on potential for slight earnings, revenue miss                                            
   Soochow Securities Co., a mid-size Chinese investment bank, on Friday starts to gauge investors' interest in its initial public offering in spite of a sluggish stock market. The company has said it will sell as many as 500 million yuan-denominated Class A shares, or up to 25% of its enlarged capital, ahead of its Shanghai listing.                                            
   Asia markets trade mostly lower, with energy and banking stocks among notable decliners, amid ongoing concerns over Europe’s debt crisis.                                            
   A pan-European stock index ends marginally lower on Thursday, falling for a sixth consecutive trading session after comments from euro-zone leaders disappoint investors.                                            
   Britain’s benchmark stock index ends a ninth straight day in the red after German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismisses calls for euro bonds.                                            
   The euro has withstood punch after punch, and there’s likely more to its resilience than repatriation flows by troubled banks.                                            
   MUMBAI (MarketWatch) -- Auditing firm KPMG LLP, liquidators of most of MF Global Holdings Ltd.'s Asia operations, said Thursday that as many as 30 bidders were still in the race for the India, Japan, and Singapore operations of the collapsed brokerage as the selloff process picks up pace.                                            
   --KPMG seeks court approval to distribute MF Global Canada foreign-exchange customer funds --Foreign-exchange clients expected to receive checks by Nov. 30 --No funds appear to be missing Foreign-exchange clients of MF Global Canada Co., a unit of bankrupt U.S. broker-dealer MF Global Holdings Ltd. MFGLQ, will get their money back by month's end once the Canadian trustee receives court approval Thursday.                                            
   Most Asian equity markets move between small gains and losses on Thursday, although Japanese shares fall sharply.                                            
   Peter Brimelow is celebrating Thanksgiving by writing about another explicitly Christian letter: Sound Mind Investing.                                            
   U.S. investors can be grateful for a Thanksgiving break on Thursday, but Europe markets are still open. And we’ll need to catch up on Friday.                                            
   Stocks are sinking Monday as European markets deepen losses and a failed German bond auction suggests the eurozone's debt contagion is spreading further.                       Click to view a price quote on  ^DJI .                                                 
   There may be bargains galore, but there are not-so-obvious ways the kickoff to holiday shopping may cost you.                                                 
   Alix Steel and Scott Redler, chief strategic officer at T3Live.com, reveal how to trade stocks on today's news.                       Click to view a price quote on  GLD .                       Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
   A canceled expansion by Saudi Aramco shows nontraditional oil production is having the desired effect. A handful of companies represent market plays in this growing field.                       Click to view a price quote on  SU .                       Click to research the  Energy   industry.                                                 
   JPMorgan has led every quarter since at least the start of 2010.                       Click to view a price quote on  BAC .                       Click to research the  Banking   industry.                                                 
   Gold prices are drifting lower Wednesday as a stronger dollar weighs on prices and as traders take profits into the Thanksgiving holiday.                       Click to view a price quote on  GLD .                       Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    TheStreet  looks at 10 bank dividend stocks whose investors could soon see dividend increases.                       Click to view a price quote on  JPM .                       Click to research the  Banking   industry.                                                 
   Companies that pay big dividends, yet also expect to boost profits, are an attractive alternative to blue-chips.                       Click to view a price quote on  MS .                       Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
   Jobless claims get pushed out before the turkey arrives as the overall trend continues to move down.                       Click to view a price quote on  DE .                       Click to research the  Industrial   industry.                                                 
   Maelle Gavet, the CEO of Russian e-commerce company OZON.ru, discusses the challenges of operating an Internet business in the country and the future of the Russian Internet market.                       Click to view a price quote on  AMZN .                       Click to research the  Retail   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- U.S. lawmakers are planning to examine the relationship between former MF Global CEO Jon Corzine and credit ratings agencies, according to a published media report.          The report, published on The Wall Street Journal's Web site, cited an anonymous source familiar with the matter.                             Jon Corzine                       Earlier this week, the House Financial Services Committee announced it had called Corzine to testify at a hearing scheduled for Dec. 15.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MFGLQ.PK .                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (fxtechstrategy.com) -- The dollar-yen currency pair (USD-JPY) is attempting a recovery and is displaying temporary bottom-forming signals. However, it still appears headed lower in the medium term.          Unless a follow-through higher occurs, dollar-yen could return to less than 76.67, its Nov. 18 low.         ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (MainStreet) -- Since the first electric bulb was lit more than a century years ago, people have been finding more creative ways to use them in beautiful displays. Today, holiday light displays can be found in nearly every major city and small town across the country and holiday revelers hike, drive and even boat to see the lights as part of their family traditions.          We put together a list of 10 of the best holiday displays in the country; some you may know well and some may enlighten you:          The Country Club Plaza: Kansas City, Mo.     One of the most popular holiday traditions in Kansas City and throughout the Midwest is the Plaza lighting ceremony on Thanksgiving night. Thousands flock from all over the Midwest to see 80 miles of lights -- more than 280,000 twinkling bulbs -- get switched on. The lighting ceremony is such a huge deal in the metropolitan area that it is broadcast on live television for the people who don't want to brave the cold or the throngs of revelers. One of the most outstanding seats for the show is from a room in The Raphael Hotel or InterContinental Hotel, both of which overlook the Plaza. If you miss the switch being thrown on Thanksgiving night, no worries. The lights twinkle nightly through mid-January.                            The holiday spirit often needs a little help from an outrageously awesome holiday lights display.                    ...                                                    
    By Pan Pylas          LONDON -- Europe's major stock markets resumed their long losing streak Thursday after German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissed calls for the European Central Bank to play a bigger role in resolving the debt crisis that's threatening the 17-country eurozone.          Though she managed to get French President Nicolas Sarkozy to back changes to current EU treaties in order to get the eurozone more unified, she explicitly said there would be no new provision involving the ECB.        ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The leaders of the eurozone's two largest economies Thursday said they would propose changes to European Union treaties to improve eurozone governance.           German Chancellor Angela Merkel met with French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Italian Premier Mario Monti in Strasbourg, France on Thursday.          Following the meeting, Sarkozy said "propositions for the modification of treaties" would be presented soon, the Associated Press reported.        ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- AT&T said Thursday it expects to take a $4 billion pretax charge in the fourth-quarter to reflect breakup fees related to its planned acquisition of T-Mobile USA.          The announcement is an acknowledgment that the prospects look increasingly bleak that the $39 billion transaction passes regulatory muster.                                                  In a news release, AT&T said the $4 billion charge would include $3 billion in cash and $1 billion in spectrum.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  T .                           Click to research the  Telecommunications   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- After finishing the turkey and falling asleep on the couch watching football, you may begin thinking some winter risk-management thoughts.          When's the last time you took a look at your roof?           You would be amazed at how much potential damage you could be forced to pay for if you fail to check a few basic things related to your roof, as winter sets in. Even a small leak can lead to financial disaster.                                                 ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) - Former Citigroup Vice-Chair Bill Rhodes spent the greater part of the 1980s and 1990s helping Latin America and Asia resolve their debt problems.            So when he first heard about the problem in Greece in December 2009, he warned the Euro zone leaders at the World Economic Forum that they needed to move quickly on Greece or contagion will spread rapidly.         But those efforts were in vain.          "They were in denial," Rhodes told TheStreet. "They said, 'oh this is different. We are mature economies. We can sell our problems very rapidly.'"         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  C .                           Click to research the  Banking   industry.                                                 
    By Barry Hatton          LISBON, Portugal -- Portugal's efforts to climb out of its economic crisis suffered a double setback Thursday as its credit rating was downgraded to junk status and a major strike gave voice to broad public outrage over austerity measures that have squeezed living standards.           Portugal's deepening plight underlined Europe's difficulties in finding a way out of the continent's government debt crisis, which has recently shown alarming signs of spreading to bigger nations, most notably Italy.         ...                                                    
   Bill Rhodes, a former Citigroup vice chairman known for helping to manage financial crises in the developing world in the 1980s, discusses the lessons learned.                                                   
    NEW YORK (MainStreet) -- My bean counters tell me that the gifts I give to my clients -- tokens of appreciation that I hope will help me keep them as clients -- are still deductible business expenses. So that makes this the rare time of time of year when common sense and business sense intersect.           Here then are my top five picks to bring your best customers a happy Black Friday.                             The Xi3 Modular Computer is a fully functional desktop PC that's smaller than a Coke can -- and, at $850, a nice gift for a special client.                      Native Union "Play" Video Memo Display ($60)    The Play looks like a kids' toy, but don't be fooled. The 2.4-inch screen portable video recorder and display essentially acts as a video Post-it note. Hit a button, tell it what you need to remember and the Play records and stores it. Then post the thing where you remember to look at it, hit a button again and you get a handy reminder. For sure, Native Union goes a little overboard with its claim that this thing is a "high quality" display, but for basic video business reminders, it's darn clever stocking stuffer.         ...                                                    
    BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (MainStreet) -- Once upon a time in travel, a great spa required little more than a few treatment rooms and moody music to lure those in search of rejuvenation. These days, however, a new brand of uber-spas define the ultimate holistic getaway for those that spare no expense when it comes to traveling to the remote edges of Earth seeking enlightenment with a good dose of glitz.           For those in search of a "save my soul" ashram experience without having to sleep in linens of less than 1,000 thread count, India's luxurious Shreyas Retreat in Bangalore admits 25 guests at a time to explore the spiritual dimensions of yoga, sacred Indian texts and meditation. Visitors arrive in a tropical resort setting of Asian architecture surrounding a main guest compound with a pool and outdoor pavilion. Wide lawns become the setting for late-night bonfires, and there is a selection of poolside tented cottages (minimally decorated with few lux distractions for soul searchers). There is exclusively vegetarian cuisine formulated individually for each guest.                            The Taj Lake Palace in Udaipur, on an island in the middle of Lake Pichola amid a backdrop of the Aravalli Mountains, has 66 rooms ready for the luxury traveler.                      Most guests come from the U.S. and U.K. seeking enlightenment through a series of sunrise and sunset instructions interspersed with guided and lengthy meditations from lifetime practitioners. Its spa offers natural scrubs using flowers and herbs grown on the compound in addition to the not-so-spiritual pedicure or manicure for those who like to keep up their "outer shell."        ...                                                    
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- October 2011 was finally going to usher Apple into a new era where I could leave home for more than a few hours, carrying only my iPad, not needing also to bring my laptop. The combination of iCloud, iOS 5.0     and the most recent version of iTunes was supposed to make iPad life     without a laptop finally into a possibility.      I'm sad to report that on this important goal, Apple has failed.    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  AAPL .                           Click to research the  Computer Hardware   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Happy Thanksgiving to Five Dumbest fans everywhere. We here at The Five Dumbest Lab certainly have a lot to feel thankful for, especially all those turkeys on Wall Street who continue to astonish and amuse us every week.            To show our heartfelt appreciation for all that inanity, we offer you The Five Dumbest Thanksgiving Quiz, recapping Wall Street's biggest flops this fall. Answering correctly could win you an autographed copy of Jim Cramer's Getting Back To Even and a handful of those squishy bulls he throws around the Mad Money set.            Enter by midnight Wednesday, Nov. 30, by emailing your answers here with the words "Contest Entry" in the subject line. We'll rerun the column Friday, Dec. 2, with the answers and the name of the winner. If there is more than one correct entry, we'll have a drawing, of course.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  NFLX .                           Click to research the  Specialty Retail   industry.                                                 
   Here is this week's roundup of the dumbest actions on Wall Street. Happy Thanksgiving.                                                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The markets fell again Wednesday as the eurozone crisis escalated.      The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 236.17, or 2.05%, to 11,257.35. The S&P 500 dropped 26.25, or 2.21%, to 1161.79. The Nasdaq sank 61.20, or 2.43%, to 2460.08.       Brian Kelly said on CNBC's "Fast Money" TV show, that today's huge selloff illustrated how petulant the market could be. He said the German bond auction was a disaster, adding the situation won't change appreciably until the European Central Bank steps in to buy bonds.     ...                             Click to view a price quote on  GOOG .                           Click to research the  Internet   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The plunge in U.S. stocks this week is just some kind of Black Friday discount deal, right? Buy one share of Netflix at the 52-week high price of $305 or so, and get another 3.5 shares for free?           Nope. The selling is all too real. And that's why investors are vulnerable to an early case of the blues this holiday season. History may favor a Santa Claus rally but it doesn't feel like anything else does right now.           Wednesday's action was ugly, ugly, ugly with a burst of selling toward the close pushing all three major U.S. equity indices to finish at session lows.                ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BAC .                           Click to research the  Banking   industry.                                                 
    Search Jim Cramer's Mad Money trading recommendations using our exclusive  Mad Money Stock Screener  and watch  Jim Cramer's Mad Money Post Game video exclusively on TheStreet.com.                         Editor's note: This recap was last published on Aug. 19, 2011.        ...                                                    
                      Keynes' policies stressed low interest rates, money printing and an assault on savings. He believed in a progressive income and estate tax to redistribute wealth, not to the people, but to the government. The combination of these policies would encourage consumption and higher employment. These policies have failed, yet we keep repeating them because the oligarchs running the show know they work for "them." It's coming to a bad ending.          We took Tuesday off for a prearranged family outing to Boston. Usually this is the way things happen--take a day off and bad stuff happens in markets. The negative stock market action continues but now we're at the very least short-term oversold.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  DE .                           Click to research the  Industrial   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The best thing to come out of all the upsets last week in college football will be renewed calls for a playoff system.      With only two unbeaten teams -- No. 1 LSU and No. 8 Houston -- remaining in the Football Bowl Subdivision, there are myriad possibilities of who will play in the BCS national championship game.      Not only are there some potentially complicating clashes this weekend, but there also are conference championship games the following weekend that could throw the final BCS standings into disarray.    ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Shares of Diamond Foods were walloped Wednesday as questions about the death of a former director stoked investor fears that a probe of the company's accounting could lead to the restatement of past financial results.           The San Francisco-based snack products company, whose brands include Pop Secret popcorn and Emerald nuts, acknowledged that Joseph Silveira passed away late last week and press reports late Tuesday indicated Silveira may have committed suicide.           The stock closed down 21% at $27.80 on volume of 9.7 million, nearly 10 times the issue's trailing three-month daily average of around 1 million.                 ...                             Click to view a price quote on  DMND .                           Click to research the  Food & Beverage   industry.                                                 
   A failed German bond auction sends investors sulking before Thanksgiving holiday.                                                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Brazil's national oil regulator has suspended Chevron's right to drill in the country, pending more clarity from the oil giant after the recent spill in its major Brazilian Frade field.           At the same time, the Brazilian energy regulator also suspended Chevron's right to explore for oil in Brazil's subsalt areas, considered one of the most significant global finds in recent oil market history.          The news development was not a complete surprise, as the Frade spill has been a minor nightmare for Chevron, which has already been cited by Brazil for falsifying information provided in response to the spill and criticized for its response plan. Chevron is expected to be fined for the spill. The latest development, though, is a hit to Chevron's significant hopes for its Brazilian exploration at a time of declining production for the oil majors.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  CVX .                           Click to research the  Energy   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Investors lost their appetite for stocks Wednesday after Europe's strongest economy -- Germany -- had trouble borrowing funds, illustrating fresh erosion of investor confidence in the region.           The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 236 points, or 2.1%, to finish at a session low of 11,258, marking its fifth drop in six sessions. The blue-chip index is now off 4.6% on the week. All 30 Dow components closed in the red with Bank of America, Alcoa , JPMorgan Chase and Hewlett-Packard leading the losses.           The S&P 500 and Nasdaq both suffered a sixth consecutive declines. The S&P 500 sank 26 points, or 2.2%, to settle at 1162, while the Nasdaq surrendered 61 points, or 2.4%, to close at 2460.                                                   ...                             Click to view a price quote on  ^DJI .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Regions Financial  was the loser Wednesday among the largest U.S. banks, with shares dropping 6% to close at $3.67, as investors reacted to the Federal Reserve's final ruling on its third round of stress tests.           The Birmingham, Ala., lender owes $3.5 billion in federal bailout funds received through the Troubled Assets Relief Program, or TARP, and is hoping that the eventual sale of its Morgan Keegan brokerage unit will boost capital sufficiently for it to repay the government without raising additional common equity through a public offering.                                                    The broad U.S. stock indexes all saw declines of over 2%. The KBW Bank Index  declined over 3% to close at 34.73, with all 24 index components showing declines of over 1%.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BAC .                           Click to research the  Banking   industry.                                                 
                By Jeff Cox, Senior Markets Writer at CNBC.com        NEW YORK (CNBC) -- Though the stock market has been unable to make a clean break into positive territory this year, there still is hope that 2011 can end on a positive note. Just don't count on mom-and-pop investors to make it happen.          Retail money has been out of the market for most of the year -- even during some of Wall Street's most violent rallies -- and is largely expected to stay there until the debt and deficit problems in the U.S. and throughout Europe get resolved.          "The retail investor is just fed up," says Brian Gendreau, market strategist with the Financial Network, an El Segundo, Calif.-based independent broker-dealer. "They don't know how they can plan for anything like retirement or buying a home. They're really put off by the volatility."                        More from CNBC            Euro on 'Death Watch' After Failed German Bond Auction        'Vultures' Would Love to Exploit EU Weakness        Is It Really That Hard to Get a Mortgage?                        ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Stocks were trading near session lows as Europe's strongest economy -- Germany -- had trouble borrowing funds, illustrating fresh erosion in investor confidence in the region.           The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 181 points, or 1.6%, at 11,313 as sovereign debt contagion fears escalated. The blue-chip index has already fallen in four of the past five sessions, losing 5% over that span and falling into negative territory for 2011.           Almost all 30 Dow components were in the red on Wednesday with Bank of America, Alcoa , Boeing and Hewlett-Packard leading the losses.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  ^DJI .                                                 
                By John Melloy, Executive Producer for CNBC's Fast Money and Strategy Session        NEW YORK (CNBC) -- Investors began to fear the worst for the euro after unusually weak demand at an auction for bonds from Germany, the region's largest economy. One analyst went so far as to put the currency on a "death watch."          Germany sold just 60% of the 6 billion euros in 10-year bunds it brought to auction, about the weakest demand seen for the country's debt in the currency's 16-year history, economists said. The rejection of debt from Europe's safe harbor marks a new stage for the crisis.                        More from CNBC            Groupon Under $20: Attractive Discount or Lousy Deal?        Gartman: I'm on the Wrong Side of Euro Trade        Is Amazon's Stock Cracking?                          "No bunds wanted equals no Euros wanted equals the Euro death watch," wrote Mark Steele, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets. "We have seen many poor German auctions. This is not the issue. The issue is how badly the euro is doing after the weak auction."        ...                                                    
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- It's Thanksgiving week, so that means you're almost guaranteed at least 50 Thanksgiving-related puns from the NFL morning shows on Thursday and Sunday. Here's mine: I hope my picks against the spread this week don't end up being turkeys.          After going 3-2 in Week 11, my record currently stands at 19-29 with two ties, good for a miserable winning percentage of 38% in the 40 games I've picked so far. I ended up with two very bad beats last weekend. The first came when the Jacksonville Jaguars were unable to score against the Cleveland Browns on first and goal from the 2-yard line with about 45 seconds to go. The second was after Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson was injured early in the team's game against the Oakland Raiders, a key loss that sank the Vikings in a fairly close game.                               Jay Cutler, Chicago Bears                     ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Ronald Reagan's son Michael said on Wednesday that his father would have probably supported Newt Gingrich's position on immigration.          Reagan made his comments on Fox News a day after Gingrich said during Tuesday's Republican debate that he didn't think any illegal immigrants who had been in the country for 25 years and had paid taxes should be separated from their families in the United States.                                                   ...                                                    
                      Keynes' policies stressed low interest rates, money printing and an assault on savings. He believed in a progressive income and estate tax to redistribute wealth, not to the people, but to the government. The combination of these policies would encourage consumption and higher employment. These policies have failed, yet we keep repeating them because the oligarchs running the show know it works for "them." It's coming to a bad ending.          We took Tuesday off for a prearranged family outing to Boston. Usually this is the way things happen--take a day off and bad stuff happens in markets. The negative stock market action continues but now we're at the very least short-term oversold.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  DE .                           Click to research the  Industrial   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 3.3%           U.S. investors may be preparing for the Thanksgiving holiday, but the issues facing the global markets are showing few signs of relief. News of a disappointing bond auction in Germany is especially concerning for those following the ongoing European economic crisis.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (Trefis) --     BlackRock reduced its outlook for the exchange-traded funds market for 2011 by about half due to volatile equity markets that have been overwhelmed by the eurozone contagion.       The market is now projected to grow at 10% to 15% in the current year, compared to previous estimates of 20%-to-30% asset growth. BlackRock is one of the leading players in the ETF market along with State Street and Charles Schwab.    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BLK .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- All too often, large growth funds have followed a volatile pattern. During bull markets, the growth funds soared as investors bid up prices of fast-moving technology and consumer stocks. Then the rally ended and growth stocks crashed hard as overvalued shares sank.      Because of the regular collapses, the large growth category has often trailed large value. From 1928 through 2010, large growth stocks returned 8.8% annually, compared to a figure of 11.1% for large value, according to Ibbotson Associates. In recent years, growth stocks have sunk twice -- after the Internet bubble burst in 2000 and when the financial crisis unfolded in 2008. Hurt by the downturns, large growth funds trailed the S&P 500 during the past decade, while large value funds outdid the benchmark.           Should you avoid large growth funds altogether? Probably not. Growth stocks excel sometimes, and they can help to diversify portfolios. But to get steadier results, consider a growth fund that aims to limit losses in downturns. A solid choice is Capital Advisors Growth Fund . The fund often lags in bull markets, but it shines in hard times. In 2008, Capital Advisors outdid 98% of competitors and topped the S&P 500 by 7 percentage points, according to Morningstar. By managing risk, the fund returned 2.8% annually during the past decade, outdoing the S&P 500 and surpassing 66% of competitors.     ...                             Click to view a price quote on  CIAOX .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Over the weekend the Barron's cover story was about how to construct an income portfolio. Oddly, the article left out preferred stocks and preferred stock ETFs -- surprising especially since last week iShares launched the iShares S&P International Preferred Stock Index Fund .          Financial institutions issue by far the most preferred stock and, indeed, financials make up 84% of this new fund. But fortunately there is no exposure to the eurozone. Canada is the largest country at 73% followed by the U.K. at 10% and New Zealand at 8% before getting smaller from there.          The larger issuers in the fund include Swedbank from Sweden, Quayside Holdings and Kiwi Capital Securities which are both from New Zealand, energy company Transcanada and the large Canadian banks like Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto Dominion.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  IPFF .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- When it comes to venturing into the international markets at this time, the best strategy is one that includes turning off the TV.            For months, the investing-related media has remained unwaveringly focused on the economic woes facing the members of the European Union monetary bloc. While the situation facing Italy, Spain, and other troubled regions of the EU is dire and is certainly worth monitoring, the constant stream of doom and gloom can be deafening for investors.           Looking to the closing weeks of the year, I encourage investors to make an effort to peel themselves away from the drama unfolding in Europe and redirect their focus on other corners of the globe. By expanding your geographic focus, you may find that there are still pockets of strength within this otherwise treacherous investing environment.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EPU .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iShares Silver Trust 3.8%           Monday's relentless stream of bad news sent droves of investors fleeing for shelter. Interestingly, despite being a popular safe haven asset class, gold struggled to hold up, falling alongside other members of the precious metals spectrum.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SLV .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (MainStreet) -- The Congressional supercommittee failed to reach a deal to reduce the national budget deficit by $1.5 trillion, and unfortunately for bank savers, that means more of the same low interest rates savers have been seeing for more than a year now.          As for the debt committee, which was charged with reducing the massive $15 trillion public debt, the Breakout podcast from Yahoo! Finance hit the nail on the head this morning.                            A failure to act on the U.S. economy's long-term problems may be good news for homebuyers, but that's about it.                      Sean West, the U.S. political risk director at Eurasia Group, noted on the program that politicians are reluctant to cut popular programs, at least while they're still in office, and that significant cuts may well be made, but they won't kick in until "eight or nine years down the road -- when politicians are out of office."        ...                                                    
    DETROIT (MainStreet) -- Every holiday season, Toyota trots out its Lexus commercials featuring well-off couples and families waking up on Christmas morn to a bow-topped car sitting in the driveway. Does this happen anywhere besides commercial breaks in holiday specials and bowl games?          Yes, but perhaps not as often as automakers would like.                   ...                             Click to view a price quote on  TM .                           Click to research the  Automotive   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (InvestorPlace) -- It's amazing how quickly Wall Street can throw together an exchange-traded fund. Last week, Global X launched the Social Media Index  ETF, which began trading Tuesday, although on very low volume.          That this ETF is coming from a company with "global" in its name is fitting: After all, the index would be sparse if it only comprised U.S.-based social media companies. Only a handful of such operators have gone public over the past year, such as Groupon , Pandora  and LinkedIn.                                         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  RENN .                           Click to research the  Internet   industry.                                                 
    BALTIMORE (Stockpickr) -- Investment ideas in 140 characters or less? That's the argument many traders are making for Twitter, the microblogging site that boasts more than 300 million users.       Brevity has been a big part of Twitter's success -- and a reason for the service's popularity among traders. After all, it doesn't take more than a few seconds to blast off a tweet about your latest trade, or thoughts about a significant market move. Third-party services such as StockTwits also aggregate stock market tweets in real time, providing an interesting sentiment gauge or an instant opinion on your latest position.      >>3 Cheap China Stocks Without the Risk    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  FAZ .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- At a time when money-market funds yield almost nothing, some closed-end funds offer an intriguing option for income-oriented investors.           The closed-ends aim to pay fixed annual yields. In a typical arrangement, a fund announces its intention to pay out 5% or more of its assets annually. Investors can spend the cash payments or reinvest the money.     	...                             Click to view a price quote on  ADX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      There isn't anything positive to say about market action Monday. The expected failure of the so-called congressional "Super Committee" has occurred. Rather than doing their job making even miniscule cuts in spending, both sides will look to make political hay from given the impending election cycle.          Bernanke's Keynesian policies are also a failure. Zero interest rate policies were intended to stimulate consumption but they've only enriched the Fed's Primary Dealers and other oligarchs. Let's remember, Keynes was a proponent of consumption versus savings. To achieve it he presumed ZIRP and QE would do the trick but even in the Great Depression, of which Bernanke claims expertise, those policies failed. It didn't help that Moody's warned about a French downgrade and rumors remain of another U.S. downgrade given congressional failure. I wonder why reducing the deficit by $1 trillion over a 10 year period with the deficit now at $15 trillion is even meaningful to any rating agency?        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  JEF .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, otherwise known as the super committee, accomplished one thing: It wasted government money.          The committee announced its failure to compromise and find more than $1 trillion in deficit reductions over the next decade in typical political doublespeak  on Monday afternoon, saying it tried really hard and was deeply disappointed. There were even Happy Thanksgiving wishes. Really. No joke.                             Super Committee Co-Chair John Kerry (D-Mass.)                       The original authorization for the super committee, in the Budget Control Act of 2011, laid out the staff hiring expenses and general expenses that the super committee would be entitled to incur. It doesn't provide any numbers but with Monday's failure, whatever expenses were incurred are now just another waste of taxpayer money.        ...                                                    
    Editor's note: As part of our partnership with PBS's Nightly Business Report, TheStreet's Gregg Greenberg joined NBR Monday (watch video and read transcript here) to discuss which European stocks still intrigue money managers despite the debt crisis.           Europe may be falling apart as a solution to the debt crisis grows more elusive each day, but despite the turmoil, fund managers still say there are strong stocks to be found across the Atlantic.          The faltering euro will help exports at technology giant Siemens, says Audrey Kaplan, portfolio manager for the Federated InterContinental Fund. In addition, she says the so-called "German GE" will benefit from the European Central Bank's recent decision to lower interest rates, allowing Siemens to reinvest in its businesses.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  STO .                           Click to research the  Energy   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The Top Gun Options trading team believes this week could be one of those proverbial tipping points for Wall Street, as the eurozone's escalating sovereign debt crisis runs hard against a key deadline for the U.S. government's own debt issues. It's a stupid standoff.          Following directly on the heels of a very bad week for the equity market, when all of the major indices suffered some harsh drops, Congress is likely to announce that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which had been optimistically dubbed the "Super Committee," has failed in its mission to come up with a blueprint for cutting the deficit to the tune of over one trillion dollars. Wow...no one saw this coming. Shocker.                                                Exactly what the repercussions of this failure are remain to be seen, but there have been rumblings by the major rating agencies, including Moody's and Standard and Poor's, that the U.S. could see a further downgrade in its credit. While most economists consider this an unlikely scenario, just the fact that it is being discussed may be enough to further scare an already skittish market....                             Click to view a price quote on  VIX .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are five ETFs to watch this week.           Market Vectors Agribusiness ETF           Food prices have run into headwinds as looming economic turmoil has weighed heavily on investor confidence in the global growth picture. In November, this factor has caused the futures-tracking PowerShares DB Agriculture Fund to retreat to previous 2011 lows, returning all of the gains in October.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MOO .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are this week's winners and losers.        Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 7.9%           For another week, Europe's debt woes took center stage, igniting investor fears and driving many back into the comfort of safe-haven asset classes.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      It's been surprising how little MF Global news there is. It's there, all gift-wrapped for the media. The CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler (former GS managing director) has recused himself from MF investigations given his close relationship with Corzine.          Goldman Sachs, the omnipresent vampire squid, has its tentacles spread globally. Apart from conflicts with MF, Goldman suggested ECB head Mario Draghi (a former GS advisor) encourage the Germans to allow the ECB to print enough money which would be lent to the IMF. In turn the IMF would lend it to euro zone nations in need. German PM Merkel has sternly voted no to this. Italy's new PM Mario Monti (also a former GS advisor) is also pro-printing. And, Goldman in a note Friday wrote: "There are no easy choices and it would have been, no doubt, better if the ECB had never got in the position it is in now. But the current situation demands a careful weighing of the risk involved with any decision taken. The inflationary risk thereby seems to be getting an unduly high weight in the consideration of German policy makers." They clearly have undue influence.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BA .                           Click to research the  Aerospace/Defense   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- General Electric says it advocates closing all tax loopholes, an event that would almost certainly result in the company paying more taxes, according to a pair of tax experts.          General Electric has a reputation as one of the most effective U.S. companies at minimizing its tax bill. The company's tax strategies attracted widespread attention in March, when they became the subject of a front page story  in The New York Times that, among other highlights, pointed out that GE paid no federal taxes in 2010 despite earning $14.2 billion, including $5.1 billion in the U.S. In fact, the story notes, GE got a tax benefit of $3.2 billion last year.                                                       That now-notorious GE tax return is back in the news thanks to Rep. Paul Ryan, who told attendees at a recent townhall meeting that, if printed out, it would total some 57,000 pages.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  GE .                           Click to research the  Industrial   industry.                                                 
    Gregg Greenberg: Tom Geier, how do your structure your portfolios to conservatively manage the assets of pro-athletes?          Tom Geier: Well as you realize, athletes never know what their entire career is going to be. It could be anywhere from one year to a Cal Ripkin-type story where it's a 10, 15 year amazing length. So you have to really think of an athlete as almost a retired person. They are going to have a certain amount of income, a lot of income during a short period of time and then they have a long life where they going to have to consume that income. So we look for a very conservative growth type of portfolio. I will tell you that consist of a certain amount of growth stocks, but offset with bond, you know the municipals because the taxes consideration. Things that kind of don't correlate with the market so that as we go through those turmoils with the market, their portfolio kind of actually withstands the volatility.           Gregg Greenberg: Right now there is an NBA lockout. Do you think the players are prepared for it?     ...                                                    
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.           Winners           iShares Silver Trust 3.2%         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SLV .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
     The European economy may be struggling, but the faltering Euro is benefitting technology giant Siemens, says Audrey Kaplan, portfolio manager for the  Federated InterContinental Fund . In addition, she says the so-called "German GE" will benefit from the European Central Bank's recent decision to lower interest rates.            "They are already operating as number one or number two in every business area in which they compete, so we are big fans of Siemens," says Kaplan.           The $585 million fund, which garners 3 stars from Morningstar, has lost 9% over the past year due to the turmoil in Europe, placing it in the 50th percentile for all funds in Morningstar's foreign large blend category. Over the past ten years, the fund has returned an average of 8.5% annually, outpacing 95% of its Morningstar rivals.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  RIMAX .                                                 
    Updated 11:02 a.m.        NEW YORK (MainStreet) -- Gift cards are a great holiday present only if the stores issuing them stay solvent long enough for customers to redeem them.          American holiday shoppers increased gift card spending from $139.91 per person in 2009 to $145.61 last year, according to the National Retail Federation. That's still less than the $147.33 spent on gift cards in 2008 and well below the $156.24 spent at gift cards' peak in 2007 -- when they were a nice throw-in with a bottle of wine or a gift basket and not an expendable holiday expenditure -- but at $41.50 a card for roughly 3.5 cards, that's still a nice holiday haul.                   ...                             Click to view a price quote on  AAP .                           Click to research the  Retail   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (The FRED Report) -- We are still holding on to our expected rally theme as highlighted in last week's article. As long as $120 holds on SPY  then we remain favorable on U.S. equity markets into year-end. We highlighted this level along with other market observations in our weekly conference call yesterday. You can listen to the recording here.          Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.                                                ...                             Click to view a price quote on  USO .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated growth and income exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          None of exchange-traded growth and income funds ranked in the "Buy" range. So, our listing of the top funds in this category is led by eight open-end funds and two traditional closed-end funds, all of which outperformed the exchange-traded funds in our rankings. Funds seeking either growth or income only as a secondary objective did not qualify for this top 10 list.                                                   Here are the 10 best growth and income funds for 2012:        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  TILDX .                                                 
                      The further down the road we go without confronting problems head on, the more difficult things become. Globally, there is a lack of political will, honesty and leadership. It's the Achilles Heel of the election cycle where politicians and central bankers are too afraid of making serious decisions fearing they'd lose their jobs. We go along with band-aids, useless stimulus, money printing and hope. It's BS and smoke and mirrors policies. If your life was on the line you'd do what you could to save it, wouldn't you? But in our global political world, being honest with people doesn't pay with votes--they mislead you with weak policies and Kool Aid spin.          "Trust us" is their mantra.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SHLD .                           Click to research the  Retail   industry.                                                 
              Our goal in this profile is to help investors wade through the many competing ETF offerings available. Using our long experience as an ETF publication, and nearly 40 years in the investment business, we can help select those ETFs that matter and may or may not be repetitive. The result is a more manageable list of issues from which to view and make selections.           There is currently an expanding list of 16 ETFs oriented to individual Latin American countries whether small cap or even subsectors. The following analysis features a fair representation of ETFs available. We believe from these investors may choose an appropriate ETF to satisfy the best index-based offerings individuals and financial advisors may utilize.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EWW .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 5.1%           Despite seeing some inklings of strength from this morning's initial jobless claims report, the markets have spent much of the day treading in negative territory. Around mid-day, the selling picked up as European economic concerns once again took center stage.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (MainStreet) -- While the average taxpayer tends to avoid thinking about income taxes until the April deadline forces him to, once the ball drops in Times Square at midnight on Dec. 31 and the New Year is rung in there is very little that can be done to cut your 2011 tax bill.          Luckily, during the last two months of the year you can do a great deal to reduce your liability.                            There are still two months left to make any adjustments available to lower your 2011 tax bill, and there is a great deal you can do.                          First off, sit down with paper and pencil and make a list of your anticipated income for 2011 and all allowable deductions you plan to claim. Using your 2010 return as a guide, prepare a projected 2011 tax return.        ...                                                    
    International Monetary Fund, Theodore Forstmann: Hot Trends                                                 
    The Week Ahead: Investors Eye GDP Data; Earnings from H-P, Nuance, Deere                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- All too often, large growth funds have followed a volatile pattern. During bull markets, the growth funds soared as investors bid up prices of fast-moving technology and consumer stocks. Then the rally ended and growth stocks crashed hard as overvalued shares sank.      Because of the regular collapses, the large growth category has often trailed large value. From 1928 through 2010, large growth stocks returned 8.8% annually, compared to a figure of 11.1% for large value, according to Ibbotson Associates. In recent years, growth stocks have sunk twice -- after the Internet bubble burst in 2000 and when the financial crisis unfolded in 2008. Hurt by the downturns, large growth funds trailed the S&P 500 during the past decade, while large value funds outdid the benchmark.           Should you avoid large growth funds altogether? Probably not. Growth stocks excel sometimes, and they can help to diversify portfolios. But to get steadier results, consider a growth fund that aims to limit losses in downturns. A solid choice is Capital Advisors Growth Fund . The fund often lags in bull markets, but it shines in hard times. In 2008, Capital Advisors outdid 98% of competitors and topped the S&P 500 by 7 percentage points, according to Morningstar. By managing risk, the fund returned 2.8% annually during the past decade, outdoing the S&P 500 and surpassing 66% of competitors.     ...                             Click to view a price quote on  CIAOX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated fixed income exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          When narrowing the criteria to just municipal bond funds and widening the scope beyond just exchange-traded funds to also include open-end and closed-end funds, 10 funds stand out as the best. The funds below are worthy of consideration for your 2012 portfolio.                                                    Our listing of the top funds in this category is led by two open-end funds, one exchange-traded fund, and seven traditional closed-end funds. As the list is dominated by closed-end funds, be mindful of the premium or discount embedded in the market price when timing your purchase. Also, if you live in a state that assesses an income tax, finding a municipal bond fund specializing in your state may limit your tax exposure.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MXN .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                   
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- At a time when money-market funds yield almost nothing, some closed-end funds offer an intriguing option for income-oriented investors.           The closed-ends aim to pay fixed annual yields. In a typical arrangement, a fund announces its intention to pay out 5% or more of its assets annually. Investors can spend the cash payments or reinvest the money.     	...                             Click to view a price quote on  ADX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                   
    Editor's note: As part of our partnership with PBS's Nightly Business Report, TheStreet's Gregg Greenberg joined NBR Monday (watch video and read transcript here) to discuss which European stocks still intrigue money managers despite the debt crisis.           Europe may be falling apart as a solution to the debt crisis grows more elusive each day, but despite the turmoil, fund managers still say there are strong stocks to be found across the Atlantic.          The faltering euro will help exports at technology giant Siemens, says Audrey Kaplan, portfolio manager for the Federated InterContinental Fund. In addition, she says the so-called "German GE" will benefit from the European Central Bank's recent decision to lower interest rates, allowing Siemens to reinvest in its businesses.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  STO .                           Click to research the  Energy   industry.                   
    Gregg Greenberg: Tom Geier, how do your structure your portfolios to conservatively manage the assets of pro-athletes?          Tom Geier: Well as you realize, athletes never know what their entire career is going to be. It could be anywhere from one year to a Cal Ripkin-type story where it's a 10, 15 year amazing length. So you have to really think of an athlete as almost a retired person. They are going to have a certain amount of income, a lot of income during a short period of time and then they have a long life where they going to have to consume that income. So we look for a very conservative growth type of portfolio. I will tell you that consist of a certain amount of growth stocks, but offset with bond, you know the municipals because the taxes consideration. Things that kind of don't correlate with the market so that as we go through those turmoils with the market, their portfolio kind of actually withstands the volatility.           Gregg Greenberg: Right now there is an NBA lockout. Do you think the players are prepared for it?     ...                      
     The European economy may be struggling, but the faltering Euro is benefitting technology giant Siemens, says Audrey Kaplan, portfolio manager for the  Federated InterContinental Fund . In addition, she says the so-called "German GE" will benefit from the European Central Bank's recent decision to lower interest rates.            "They are already operating as number one or number two in every business area in which they compete, so we are big fans of Siemens," says Kaplan.           The $585 million fund, which garners 3 stars from Morningstar, has lost 9% over the past year due to the turmoil in Europe, placing it in the 50th percentile for all funds in Morningstar's foreign large blend category. Over the past ten years, the fund has returned an average of 8.5% annually, outpacing 95% of its Morningstar rivals.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  RIMAX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated growth and income exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          None of exchange-traded growth and income funds ranked in the "Buy" range. So, our listing of the top funds in this category is led by eight open-end funds and two traditional closed-end funds, all of which outperformed the exchange-traded funds in our rankings. Funds seeking either growth or income only as a secondary objective did not qualify for this top 10 list.                                                   Here are the 10 best growth and income funds for 2012:        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  TILDX .                   
     Take note shoppers, because digital labels are the wave of the future, says Ralf Scherschmidt, portfolio manager for the  Oberweis International Opportunities Fund . Scherschmidt says the high-tech labels benefit both grocery store chains and their customers, which is why he owns shares of Swedish digital label maker Pricer.           "It has a significant value proposition to grocery store chains because it can centrally change prices in an instant," says Scherschmidt, who adds that from the customer standpoint, it allows the chains to create "happy hours" where store-owners can lower prices on some items during less crowded times.            Scherschmidt's $16 million fund, which garners 2 stars from Morningstar, has lost 2.4% over the past year, placing it in the 16th percentile for all funds in Morningstar's Foreign Small/Mid Growth category. Over the past three years, the fund has returned an average of 22% annually, once again outpacing 84% of its Morningstar rivals.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  OBIOX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated emerging markets exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          Only two exchange-traded emerging markets funds ranked in the "Buy" range. So, our listing of the top funds in this category takes an expanded look to include seven open-end stock funds, two open-end bond funds, and one traditional closed-end fund, all of which outperformed the exchange-traded funds in our rankings.                                                   Here are the 10 best emerging markets funds for 2012:        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  HEMZX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best overall-rated mutual funds for 2012 are updated monthly on our Top-Rated Mutual Funds page.          1. No mutual fund ranks higher than the Permanent Portfolio Fund with an overall rating of "A+", or Excellent. The fund has maintained an A+ rating since December 2007.                                                        The Permanent Portfolio seeks to preserve and increase the purchasing power value of its shares over the long term. The fund invests a fixed target percentage of its net assets in gold, silver, Swiss franc assets, stocks of U.S. and foreign real estate and natural resource companies, aggressive growth stock and dollar assets such as U.S. Treasury securities and short term corporate bonds. The fund may invest in shares of companies of any market capitalization including small or mid-capitalization companies. However, at least 60 percent of its investment in aggressive growth stocks will ordinarily be in securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  PFE .                           Click to research the  Drugs   industry.                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) - In the volatile markets of recent months, Build America Bonds have soared.           Representing a small corner of the municipal market, the bonds deliver rich income. During the past year, the Eaton Vance Build America Bond, a mutual fund, returned 18%, outdoing 99% of bond funds and topping the Barclays Capital Aggregate Bond index by 12 percentage points, according to Morningstar. PowerShares Build America Bond, an ETF, returned 17.1%.    	  Now that the bonds have enjoyed a steep rally, they no longer represent screaming bargains. But the funds are still worth considering for their fat yields. At a time when 10-year Treasuries yield a paltry 2.06%, many Build America Funds yield more than 5% -- a nice payout for a high-quality investment.     	...                             Click to view a price quote on  EBABX .                   
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- Ten mutual funds with reputations for making concentrated bets on outlier stocks are buying financial companies, as beaten down a sector as you can find.          The results of such bets can, of course, be disappointing, as they have for the most part this year, or they could represent wily fund managers laying the groundwork for big gains when the market rebounds.          Morningstar analysts selected 10 of their favorite "against the grain" funds known for their intrepid picks and combined their top holdings into one theoretical portfolio to see what their managers are up to now, with some surprising results.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  AIG .                           Click to research the  Insurance   industry.                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- To break a stock, the goal of a short like Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn isn't getting the retail investor to run scared, it's to get the big institutional holders of shares to capitulate. In the case of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, this means the most important "tell" will be what mutual fund giant Fidelity Investments does -- or has already done -- in response to the demise of Green Mountain Coffee shares.           Fidelity is the largest shareholder of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters as of its last quarterly portfolio report, through June 30. That report, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Aug. 16, showed that the mutual fund giant had increased its stake in Green Mountain Coffee by 4.7 million shares during the second quarter, to 19.1 million shares.      The second-quarter buying by Fidelity was a 32% increase in its Green Mountain stake, and represents 12.5% of Green Mountain's outstanding shares, according to the Imetrix service from Edgar Online. Overall, Green Mountain shares are 75%-owned by institutional investors.    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  GMCR .                           Click to research the  Food & Beverage   industry.                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Do investors buy the wrong funds? Plenty of academic researchers think so. The researchers say that many investors pick poor-performing actively managed funds. Instead of trying to beat the benchmarks with actively managed funds, most investors would do better by sticking with index funds, the academics argue.           But a new study by Morningstar suggests that investors aren't so dumb after all. According to the latest data, typical investors have achieved competitive results. "Investors have done a good job of picking active funds," says John Rekenthaler, Morningstar's vice president of research.           	Rekenthaler says that the typical academic study looks at a group of 200 or so actively managed funds. Most often two-thirds or more of the funds failed to outdo their benchmarks during the previous 10 years. While the data in the studies may be accurate, the results don't necessarily reflect the experience of the typical investor, says Rekenthaler.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  ANCFX .                   
    (Adds today's S&P 500 increase.)          BOSTON (TheStreet) -- So, let's get this straight: The stock market slid in September, rebounded in October and now it's ... tanking again?          The S&P 500 Index rose as much as 2% today after falling 2.8% yesterday, extending a two-day decline to 5.2%. Is it any wonder individual investors are checking out?        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SGROX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- During the volatile markets of recent months, many target-date funds delivered disappointing results. When the S&P 500 dropped 13.9% in the third quarter, Goldman Sachs Retirement Strategy 2040  lost 17.7%, while DWS LifeCompass 2040  declined 17.0%, according to Morningstar. The showing was especially painful because target-date funds are supposed to protect assets in downturns by holding diversified mixes of stocks and bonds. But not all target-date funds trailed the S&P 500. During the quarter, Invesco Balanced-Risk Retirement 2040  returned 2.3%, while PIMCO RealRetirement 2040  lost 9.7%.       	The divergent returns should serve as a reminder that target-date funds vary considerably. Although the funds all aim to serve retirement savers, some portfolio managers take significant risk, while others maintain a cautious stance. Riskier funds suffered the biggest losses in the downturns.                                                   ...                             Click to view a price quote on  GRNAX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The markets have whipsawed investors over the past three months. After sinking in August and September, stocks soared in October.           The roller-coaster markets caused particularly painful bumps for growth funds, which dropped dramatically and never fully recovered. For the three months, large-cap growth funds lost 2.6%, while small-cap growth funds declined 5.2%, according to Morningstar. In comparison, the S&P 500 lost 0.7%.     	      Though the volatile period was unsettling, it did provide a clear test for portfolio managers.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MCGFX .                   
     More and more consumers are using plastic for their purchases instead of cash, and that bodes well for MasterCard , says Matt Glaser, portfolio manager for the Turner Spectrum Fund . Nevertheless, while he likes the credit card business, Glaser is not bullish on the entire financial sector, taking a short position in companies with heavy exposure to banks and brokerages.            "MasterCard is essentially an oligopoly. There are only a couple of companies in the world that have dominant share in this area," says Glaser.           The $623 million fund, which launched in May 2009, has returned 5.5% over the past year, better than 83% of its peers in Morningstar's long/short category.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  TSPCX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Over the course of the summer and into the fall, ETF provider WisdomTree has reoriented several of its mutual funds, including revamping its New Zealand dollar fund into the WisdomTree Australia and New Zealand Debt Fund.          The big story here is that yields in Australia and New Zealand are much higher than in the U.S. and the economies are less volatile than the U.S., at least in the last few years. Australia benefits from natural resources demand and New Zealand benefits from demand for agricultural commodities, timber and wool,          The fund will allocate between the two countries based on GDP, which for now means the fund will invest 88% in Australian debt and 12% in New Zealand debt. These weightings could change over time but it is unlikely there will be any meaningful change anytime soon.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  AUNZ .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                   
    BOSTON (TheStreet) --     For investors, it was the worst of times followed by the best of times. September's slide set the groundwork for October's stock-market rally, the biggest in almost four decades.          October is bestowing a blessing on mutual fund managers, as battered and beleaguered a group as you will find in the investment industry. A sustainable rally could lure individual investors back to equity funds after they stampeded out of them, frustrated by outsized volatility and gloomy forecasts for global economies.          The S&P 500 Index, the benchmark for U.S. stocks, is up 13.5% for the month through Thursday, its best performance since a 16.3% gain in October 1974.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  OEPIX .                   
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- It's going to take a lot more than yesterday's 3.4% gain in the S&P 500 Index to lure fed-up mutual fund investors back to the fold.          Americans have been in full flight this year, withdrawing $84 billion from U.S. equity mutual funds through Oct. 11 versus $83 billion for all of last year, according to TrimTabs Investment Research.                                                   With yesterday's gain in the S&P 500, the benchmark index is up 14% this month, the biggest monthly increase since 1974. The reason for the rise was Europe boosting a rescue fund to 1 trillion euros ($1.4 trillion) while investors agreed to a voluntary writedown of 50% on Greece's debt.        ...                      
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- In news sure to cheer the denizens of Occupy Wall Street and their followers, billionaire hedge fund manager Bruce Berkowitz, founder of the Fairholme family of mutual funds, is facing tough times too.          His Fairholme Capital Management said in a regulatory filing that Charlie Fernandez, the co-manager of its flagship Fairholme fund, and its $352 million Fariholme Focus Income and the $194 million Fairholme Allocation funds, has left the firm.           That leaves Berkowitz as sole manager of all three funds at a time when they are struggling.                             Bruce Berkowitz, manager of the Fairholme family of funds                    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  FAIRX .                   
     The old adage about "location, location, location" does not only apply to real estate purchases, says Brian Watson, portfolio manager of the  SteelPath MLP Alpha Fund , but to oil pipeline stocks as well.           "You want own a pipeline coming from producing regions going to quickly growing production groups. For example, it's great to have a pipeline flowing towards Florida because we know population growth there is strong," says Watson.          The $300 million fund, which was launched in March 2010, has returned 2% over the past year, better than 54% of its peers in Morningstar's energy category.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MLPAX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Worried about the uncertain economic outlook, investors have been dumping emerging market bonds and racing to buy Treasuries. During the past three months, emerging market bond funds have lost 3.4%, while long government funds have gained 19.8%, according to Morningstar.       But not all emerging bond funds have suffered equally. During the past three months, Fidelity New Markets Income  about broke even. The fund avoided trouble by following the cautious approach favored by portfolio manager John Carlson. The Fidelity manager shuns the lowest-quality bonds and emphasizes government securities that are issued in dollars -- not in foreign currencies. The dollar bonds often prove resilient in downturns. "Our first rule is to play good defense and avoid blowups," says Carlson.           Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  FNMIX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- With growth in China slowing, the country's stocks have been pummeled. For the year so far, China region mutual funds have dropped 22.0%, lagging the S&P 500 by more than 20 percentage points and ranking as the worst performing category tracked by Morningstar.       Now some portfolio managers argue that the stocks have gotten cheap. Steve Cao, portfolio manager of Invesco Asia Pacific Growth , says that he was underweight China in 2010. But lately he has been scooping up bargains. "Since the correction, things have become attractive," he says.      	The markets are pricing stocks as if China may be on the verge of a big downturn, says Jasmine Huang, portfolio manager of Columbia Greater China Fund . She says that at the trough of the markets in 2008, Chinese stocks traded at 7.3 times forward earnings. Now the multiple is 8 times earnings....                             Click to view a price quote on  ASIAX .                   
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- Don't bet against the house -- well, at least Bill Gross' house, as represented by his Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund.          The iconoclastic bond fund guru is getting bashed for turning against Treasury bonds in the first quarter of this year when the securities rallied.                            Bill Gross                      That's when he sold and shorted Treasuries, and other government-related debt securities, citing the nation's debt crisis. He said the failure to properly address that issue would create "low to negative real interest rates."         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  PTTRX .                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Given his extensive interviews and widely read op-ed pieces, it's clear that Warren Buffett is never against sharing his opinion with the public. In many cases, however, he appears willing to let his wallet do the talking.           This week in a letter to Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R., Kan.), billionaire investor Warren Buffett stated that he had made nearly $63 million last year. What's more, the Nebraska native, who has recently come out as a vocal proponent of tax increases for the super wealthy, also remarked that his federal taxes totaled less than $7 million, or 17.4%. These tax figures were reflective of those Buffett had mentioned in his most recent New York Times op-ed piece, "Stop Coddling the Super-Rich."           While this news was enough to steal headlines, it has immediately generated criticism due largely to the fact that Buffett has yet to publicly release his official tax return.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BRK.A .                           Click to research the  Insurance   industry.                   
    BOSTON (TheStreet) -- Investors are pulling money from U.S. equity mutual funds as fast as they can as the stock-market decline accelerates. They're buying government bonds, boosting savings and, surprisingly, moving into exchange traded funds.          "Extreme selling" by individual investors has caused $94.7 billion in redemptions from U.S. stock mutual funds in the four months through September, investment-research firm TrimTabs said. For all of 2008, which hosted the financial meltdown, economic recession and stock-market crash, outflows totaled $162 billion.                                                     ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SPY .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                   
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- With much fanfare, fundamental index funds began appearing in 2006.      Proponents predicted that the new funds would outdo the S&P 500 and other traditional benchmarks. Have the fundamental funds lived up to the hype? It is too soon to draw final conclusions, but the early results look promising. Some fundamental funds have outdone the S&P 500 and other traditional benchmarks.     	  In many cases the margins of victory have been small. But the results are noteworthy because many of the fundamental funds emphasize value stocks -- a segment of the market that has been out of favor in recent years. When value stocks return to the forefront, the fundamental funds could surge.     	...                             Click to view a price quote on  PRF .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                   
    Microsoft may be cranking out cash, but on Wall Street the company has long been considered "dead money". Keith Trauner, portfolio manager for the GoodHaven Fund, says that suits him just fine.            "We love it when people talk about dead money because it means people have lost patience," he says of the company. The $69 million fund is down 2.2% since being launched in April 2011.           Trauner says Microsoft is reacting to recent headlines about its phone and tablet divisions, yet neither of the pair is central to the company's core businesses. He also likes the fact that Microsoft recently raised its dividend.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MSFT .                           Click to research the  Computer Software &  Services   industry.                   
                      Keynes' policies stressed low interest rates, money printing and an assault on savings. He believed in a progressive income and estate tax to redistribute wealth, not to the people, but to the government. The combination of these policies would encourage consumption and higher employment. These policies have failed, yet we keep repeating them because the oligarchs running the show know it works for "them." It's coming to a bad ending.          We took Tuesday off for a prearranged family outing to Boston. Usually this is the way things happen--take a day off and bad stuff happens in markets. The negative stock market action continues but now we're at the very least short-term oversold.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  DE .                           Click to research the  Industrial   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 3.3%           U.S. investors may be preparing for the Thanksgiving holiday, but the issues facing the global markets are showing few signs of relief. News of a disappointing bond auction in Germany is especially concerning for those following the ongoing European economic crisis.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (Trefis) --     BlackRock reduced its outlook for the exchange-traded funds market for 2011 by about half due to volatile equity markets that have been overwhelmed by the eurozone contagion.       The market is now projected to grow at 10% to 15% in the current year, compared to previous estimates of 20%-to-30% asset growth. BlackRock is one of the leading players in the ETF market along with State Street and Charles Schwab.    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BLK .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Over the weekend the Barron's cover story was about how to construct an income portfolio. Oddly, the article left out preferred stocks and preferred stock ETFs -- surprising especially since last week iShares launched the iShares S&P International Preferred Stock Index Fund .          Financial institutions issue by far the most preferred stock and, indeed, financials make up 84% of this new fund. But fortunately there is no exposure to the eurozone. Canada is the largest country at 73% followed by the U.K. at 10% and New Zealand at 8% before getting smaller from there.          The larger issuers in the fund include Swedbank from Sweden, Quayside Holdings and Kiwi Capital Securities which are both from New Zealand, energy company Transcanada and the large Canadian banks like Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto Dominion.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  IPFF .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- When it comes to venturing into the international markets at this time, the best strategy is one that includes turning off the TV.            For months, the investing-related media has remained unwaveringly focused on the economic woes facing the members of the European Union monetary bloc. While the situation facing Italy, Spain, and other troubled regions of the EU is dire and is certainly worth monitoring, the constant stream of doom and gloom can be deafening for investors.           Looking to the closing weeks of the year, I encourage investors to make an effort to peel themselves away from the drama unfolding in Europe and redirect their focus on other corners of the globe. By expanding your geographic focus, you may find that there are still pockets of strength within this otherwise treacherous investing environment.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EPU .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iShares Silver Trust 3.8%           Monday's relentless stream of bad news sent droves of investors fleeing for shelter. Interestingly, despite being a popular safe haven asset class, gold struggled to hold up, falling alongside other members of the precious metals spectrum.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SLV .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.      NEW YORK (InvestorPlace) -- It's amazing how quickly Wall Street can throw together an exchange-traded fund. Last week, Global X launched the Social Media Index  ETF, which began trading Tuesday, although on very low volume.          That this ETF is coming from a company with "global" in its name is fitting: After all, the index would be sparse if it only comprised U.S.-based social media companies. Only a handful of such operators have gone public over the past year, such as Groupon , Pandora  and LinkedIn.                                         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  RENN .                           Click to research the  Internet   industry.                                                 
    BALTIMORE (Stockpickr) -- Investment ideas in 140 characters or less? That's the argument many traders are making for Twitter, the microblogging site that boasts more than 300 million users.       Brevity has been a big part of Twitter's success -- and a reason for the service's popularity among traders. After all, it doesn't take more than a few seconds to blast off a tweet about your latest trade, or thoughts about a significant market move. Third-party services such as StockTwits also aggregate stock market tweets in real time, providing an interesting sentiment gauge or an instant opinion on your latest position.      >>3 Cheap China Stocks Without the Risk    ...                             Click to view a price quote on  FAZ .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- ETF industry leader Blackrock is on a mission. The goal: inject a hearty dose of transparency into the global ETF universe.            As indicated by the National Stock Exchange's fund flow reports at the start of each month, ETFs have taken off in a major way here in the United States. In the years following the initial launch of the first ETF, SPDR S&P 500 ETF, the number of instruments available to U.S. investors has ballooned to over 1,000, and total assets have ascended above the $1 trillion mark. Around the world, the number of ETFs products has surpassed 2,000.           The majority of the products currently available are considered plain vanilla ETFs, boasting characteristics similar to SPY. However, the dramatic expansion of this industry has also ushered in a growing number of products that utilize increasingly complex techniques and assets in order to meet their desired goals.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BLK .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      There isn't anything positive to say about market action Monday. The expected failure of the so-called congressional "Super Committee" has occurred. Rather than doing their job making even miniscule cuts in spending, both sides will look to make political hay from given the impending election cycle.          Bernanke's Keynesian policies are also a failure. Zero interest rate policies were intended to stimulate consumption but they've only enriched the Fed's Primary Dealers and other oligarchs. Let's remember, Keynes was a proponent of consumption versus savings. To achieve it he presumed ZIRP and QE would do the trick but even in the Great Depression, of which Bernanke claims expertise, those policies failed. It didn't help that Moody's warned about a French downgrade and rumors remain of another U.S. downgrade given congressional failure. I wonder why reducing the deficit by $1 trillion over a 10 year period with the deficit now at $15 trillion is even meaningful to any rating agency?        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  JEF .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- The Top Gun Options trading team believes this week could be one of those proverbial tipping points for Wall Street, as the eurozone's escalating sovereign debt crisis runs hard against a key deadline for the U.S. government's own debt issues. It's a stupid standoff.          Following directly on the heels of a very bad week for the equity market, when all of the major indices suffered some harsh drops, Congress is likely to announce that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which had been optimistically dubbed the "Super Committee," has failed in its mission to come up with a blueprint for cutting the deficit to the tune of over one trillion dollars. Wow...no one saw this coming. Shocker.                                                Exactly what the repercussions of this failure are remain to be seen, but there have been rumblings by the major rating agencies, including Moody's and Standard and Poor's, that the U.S. could see a further downgrade in its credit. While most economists consider this an unlikely scenario, just the fact that it is being discussed may be enough to further scare an already skittish market....                             Click to view a price quote on  VIX .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are five ETFs to watch this week.           Market Vectors Agribusiness ETF           Food prices have run into headwinds as looming economic turmoil has weighed heavily on investor confidence in the global growth picture. In November, this factor has caused the futures-tracking PowerShares DB Agriculture Fund to retreat to previous 2011 lows, returning all of the gains in October.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  MOO .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Here are this week's winners and losers.        Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 7.9%           For another week, Europe's debt woes took center stage, igniting investor fears and driving many back into the comfort of safe-haven asset classes.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      It's been surprising how little MF Global news there is. It's there, all gift-wrapped for the media. The CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler (former GS managing director) has recused himself from MF investigations given his close relationship with Corzine.          Goldman Sachs, the omnipresent vampire squid, has its tentacles spread globally. Apart from conflicts with MF, Goldman suggested ECB head Mario Draghi (a former GS advisor) encourage the Germans to allow the ECB to print enough money which would be lent to the IMF. In turn the IMF would lend it to euro zone nations in need. German PM Merkel has sternly voted no to this. Italy's new PM Mario Monti (also a former GS advisor) is also pro-printing. And, Goldman in a note Friday wrote: "There are no easy choices and it would have been, no doubt, better if the ECB had never got in the position it is in now. But the current situation demands a careful weighing of the risk involved with any decision taken. The inflationary risk thereby seems to be getting an unduly high weight in the consideration of German policy makers." They clearly have undue influence.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  BA .                           Click to research the  Aerospace/Defense   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.           Winners           iShares Silver Trust 3.2%         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SLV .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (The FRED Report) -- We are still holding on to our expected rally theme as highlighted in last week's article. As long as $120 holds on SPY  then we remain favorable on U.S. equity markets into year-end. We highlighted this level along with other market observations in our weekly conference call yesterday. You can listen to the recording here.          Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.                                                ...                             Click to view a price quote on  USO .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated growth and income exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          None of exchange-traded growth and income funds ranked in the "Buy" range. So, our listing of the top funds in this category is led by eight open-end funds and two traditional closed-end funds, all of which outperformed the exchange-traded funds in our rankings. Funds seeking either growth or income only as a secondary objective did not qualify for this top 10 list.                                                   Here are the 10 best growth and income funds for 2012:        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  TILDX .                                                 
                      The further down the road we go without confronting problems head on, the more difficult things become. Globally, there is a lack of political will, honesty and leadership. It's the Achilles Heel of the election cycle where politicians and central bankers are too afraid of making serious decisions fearing they'd lose their jobs. We go along with band-aids, useless stimulus, money printing and hope. It's BS and smoke and mirrors policies. If your life was on the line you'd do what you could to save it, wouldn't you? But in our global political world, being honest with people doesn't pay with votes--they mislead you with weak policies and Kool Aid spin.          "Trust us" is their mantra.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SHLD .                           Click to research the  Retail   industry.                                                 
              Our goal in this profile is to help investors wade through the many competing ETF offerings available. Using our long experience as an ETF publication, and nearly 40 years in the investment business, we can help select those ETFs that matter and may or may not be repetitive. The result is a more manageable list of issues from which to view and make selections.           There is currently an expanding list of 16 ETFs oriented to individual Latin American countries whether small cap or even subsectors. The following analysis features a fair representation of ETFs available. We believe from these investors may choose an appropriate ETF to satisfy the best index-based offerings individuals and financial advisors may utilize.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EWW .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Welcome to Don Dion's "ETF Winners and Losers." Be sure to stop by throughout the week to find out which ETFs are gaining or losing.         Winners           iPath S&P 500 VIX Short Term Futures ETN 5.1%           Despite seeing some inklings of strength from this morning's initial jobless claims report, the markets have spent much of the day treading in negative territory. Around mid-day, the selling picked up as European economic concerns once again took center stage.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  VXX .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    The following commentary comes from an independent investor or market observer as part of TheStreet's guest contributor program, which is separate from the company's news coverage.          NEW YORK (ETF Expert) -- The SPDR S&P China Fund  fell 37% from an April high to an October low. That was nearly twice the top-to-bottom devastation for the S&P 500 SPDR Trust . What's more, the dramatic selloff across all China ETFs met the commonplace definition of a bear market -- a 20% drop from the peak.                                                      Often, commentators and analysts use technical data to confirm bearish trends. For instance, when the 50-day moving average for GXC crossed below its 200-day moving average in July, the "death cross" signaled the likelihood of a downturn.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  YAO .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet Ratings) -- TheStreet Ratings reviews the risk-adjusted return performance of around 25,000 funds every month. The best rated emerging markets exchange-traded funds for 2012 are listed each month at TheStreet's Top-Rated ETFs page.          Only two exchange-traded emerging markets funds ranked in the "Buy" range. So, our listing of the top funds in this category takes an expanded look to include seven open-end stock funds, two open-end bond funds, and one traditional closed-end fund, all of which outperformed the exchange-traded funds in our rankings.                                                   Here are the 10 best emerging markets funds for 2012:        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  HEMZX .                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- This week, Global X, a boutique fund provider, unveiled the first ever ETF designed to provide investors with dedicated exposure to the burgeoning social media industry. While the firm may be hoping for Facebook-like success with this new launch, it is likely going to take some time before the fund becomes anything to tweet home about.           In the same way that many ETF sponsors looking for new ways to target the bond market have opted to launch foreign debt-backed products, niche corners of the technology sector have become a popular theme among those looking to construct equity-tracking ETFs.          First Trust has been leading the push. The brand new Global X Social Media ETF follows the introductions of products such as First Trust NASDAQ CEA Smartphone Index Fund and the First Trust ISE Cloud Computing Index Fund.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SOCL .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      Risks are moving back to center stage as financials continue to drag markets lower. As we've stated here for a long time, there has never been a bull market when financials haven't been with the overall trend. But you say these are unique times and we can ignore this? Not a chance--financials are at the core of our market woes.          Markets responded poorly when Fitch issued a report stating that while U.S. bank ratings are lower overall, and seem to have stabilized some, the risk of a "negative shock" remains high. This is a eurozone exposure warning which claims victims just as quickly as MF Global. Given the rapidity of failures, it's no wonder investors sold stocks immediately.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  ANF .                           Click to research the  Retail   industry.                                                 
                         Our goal in this profile is to help investors wade through the many competing ETF offerings available. Using our long experience as an ETF publication, and nearly 40 years in the investment business, we can help select those ETFs that matter and may or may not be repetitive. The result is a more manageable list of issues from which to view and make selections.         ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EZU .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                              Investors shrugged off more Italian and eurozone worries and focused instead on better than expected economic news in the U.S. Data included a lower PPI report (-.3% vs .8% previous and consensus -.2%); Retail Sales .5% vs 1.1% previous and .2% consensus); Empire State Mfg Survey (.6 vs -.2.6 previous) and lower Business Inventory data (.0% vs .4% previous and .2% consensus). Some believe the lower inventory data suggests not many deals for this holiday season.          While the headlines say stocks rallied on better economic data, the price jump was stimulated by Fed Governor Evans comments. Evans, a previous dissident FOMC member, talked up low interest rates through 2013 as settled policy but wants to see more aggressive action: "take a few chances" he says. Taking chances isn't the sign of a prudent Fed governor is it? He's no Austrian School economist.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  IBM .                           Click to research the  Computer Hardware   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Money managers had mixed views on trading strategies in the third quarter, especially when it came to gold. That's not the case with a developing trend: emerging markets.                                                    Hedge fund managers, who invest on behalf of the wealthy, have stuck with equities instead of piling into low-risk, low-yielding bonds as many Americans have. That makes hedge fund managers' views on global stock markets even more valuable.           Prominent hedge fund managers Steve Cohen of SAC Capital and Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates are turning to emerging-market ETFs to help improve their fund performance, according to a regulatory releases of their holdings. When everyone else is becoming more concerned about the signs of slowing growth in emerging economies, these managers are turning more bullish, attracted by fast-growing economies and declining debt.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  FXI .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Clear hurdles persist, but as we approach the end of 2011 and prepare for the new year, it may be time to start looking at the forgotten BRIC, India.            It has been a trying year for the Indian marketplace as issues such as inflation and corruption have weighed heavily on performance and led many to question the strength of the emerging economic growth engine.            Investors were reminded of the challenges facing India at the start of the week when the nation reported that inflation remained above 9% for the eleventh consecutive month.          ...                             Click to view a price quote on  EPI .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
    NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Bridgewater Associates, led by discreet hedge fund manager Ray Dalio, has ramped up investments in emerging market exchange traded funds.          Half of Dailo's fund is invested in ETFs, according to a third-quarter regulatory report. His largest holding remains the SPDR S&P 500 ETF, which mimics the returns of the S&P 500, at 35% of the portfolio. The number two and three positions are the Vanguard MSCI Emerging Markets ETF and the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund.                   ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SPY .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
                      This is the way it's going to be for awhile it seems--just when you think everything is okay another problem will surface. Italy is still in focus but the bloom is off the rose as reality returns. Italy's new leader Mario Monti is trying to put together a government and deal with what will be unpopular austerity. (You probably didn't know Monti is or was an advisor to Goldman Sachs. Those guys are everywhere it seems.)  Anyway, Italian bond yields climbed back toward 7% Monday. Credit Default Spreads continued to widen in the euro zone as institutional investors seek insurance from others. And, those issuing the insurance may not be good for the money should it be demanded.          The ubiquitous Warren Buffett was making the media rounds today commenting on everything from his new stake in IBM and Intel ("no, they're not tech companies"), prognosticating on the Republican nominee (Romney) and touting all his investments like Bank of America (BAC). Elsewhere hedge fund wunderkind David Tepper ("bad news is good, good news is better" fame) sold all his BAC stock as well as Yahoo (YHOO). Tepper had said he wasn't buying any stocks until the euro zone was "fixed" so perhaps he jumped the gun. Tepper also appears to have a large stake in MF Global.        ...                             Click to view a price quote on  SPY .                           Click to research the  Financial Services   industry.                                                 
   The breaking news last night was that Adobe disclosed in a surprise about-face email that it is ceasing the development of mobile Flash.  After a big fight with Jobs, Adobe is now on board to start developing tools using HTML5, the technology Jobs championed.   
   As Britney Spears nears her 30th birthday in a few months, she is in the midst of a world tour, has a successful new album, and tells Glamour Magazine that she is happy and "in a really good place right now."  There's even talk of her regaining at least partial [...]   
   It looks like Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) short sellers are finally getting their wish. Shares of the K-Cups and Keurig coffee machine firm have plunged nearly 30% in pre-market trading, as traders react to a weaker-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings report. For the period, Green Mountain said it [...]   
   Members of the finance industry are lashing out against Mario Batali after the celebrity chef likened their impact on the world to that of history's worst villains, Josef Stalin and Adolf Hitler. On Twitter, angry bankers are using a hashtag, #bataligate, to encourage each other to boycott Batali restaurants like Babbo and Del Posto, whose [...]   
   Most of what Bill Gates said to me over the course of two interviews found its way into the cover profile of him I wrote for the most recent issue of Forbes. But one set of ideas didn't really make it: his unique and thoughtful perspective on the pharmaceuticals industry. Few outsiders have [...]   
   Video The winner of the CNBC debate will not what people will be talking about at the water cooler on Thursday morning. It will matter little that Herman Cain was able to shrug of the last week of sexual scandal news and actually thrive and win the debate with a solid performance. They [...]   
   A rare opportunity to learn at the feet of a 10-figure tycoon.   
   Mario Batali's political views are, um, a little interesting. The ever-so-recognizable celebrity chef, who hangs out with the likes of Gwyneth Paltrow when he's not starring in his Food Network shows or running one of his many restaurants, thinks bankers are as evil as Hitler or Stalin.   
   In the maket's currently unpredictable behavior, many a portfolio have "blown up." So the flight to quality stocks continues.   
   Video&nbsp; When I was growing up on the South Side of Chicago, we used to see the “shell game” guys quite often on the “L” train. One smooth talking guy, three dixie cups and a garbanzo bean. (A garbanzo bean is better than a pea because it doesn't roll off the [...]   
   Laptops that will make your favorite gamers drool, but at least make them mobile enough to come to a holiday party.   
   Today's zombie PCs aren't easy to spot. But if you haven't at least considered these signs, you're probably looking at one right now.   
   With a little research, shoppers can find the HDTVs of their dreams--at prices they've always hoped for.   
   How the tools used by Hollywood's super villains can help you run your company.   
   They draw on important strengths that extroverts may not have.   
   How everyday household products can harm you and your family.   
   The company moved very wisely in trying to buy Huiyuan--except when it came to dealing with the government and the law.   
   Seeking a wealthy mate? Consider looking online first before shelling out thousands on traditional matchmakers.   
   The fast-food purveyor seeks employees and operators who believe serving chicken is God's work.   
   Elisabeth Rhyne is managing director of the Center for Financial Inclusion and author of ''Microfinance for Bankers and Investors.''   
   Forbes gives you all the tools you need to manage your mutual fund portfolio.   
   These resorts are geared to fun for families and kids, not honeymooners and party animals.   
   This is the first instance I have noted of the ?Turbo-tax? defense working against penalties. Kurt Olsen was a patent attorney working for the Department of .?? He had been preparing the joint return for himself and his wife using commercial software.?? 2007 was a special year: In 2007, petitioner?s wife received interest income from ...   
   ST. LAWRENCE GAP, Barbados ? Marcus Samuelsson is one of the best-known chefs in the U.S. For most people that would be enough, however, for the owner and head chef of the critically acclaimed and immensely popular Red Rooster restaurant in Harlem, it's obvious that his ambitions are far greater. He is part of an ...   
   Black Friday is around the corner, and retailers are slashing the prices of some of the biggest tech products for the occasion. Smartphones and tablets are far from the cheapest gifts customers can buy, but several retailers are looking to ease that burden. Stores are lengthening their hours and rolling out sales this Friday, which ...   
   Teenagers prefer smartphones to cars, according to research firm Gartner, highlighting the impact of technology on kids and the auto industry?s future challenges. The study found 46 percent of young adults aged 18 to 24 prefer access to the Internet over access to their own car, and that teens drive less overall today than they ...   
   Five of our Forbes' best-performing newsletter editors provide their best single idea for today's challenging market.   
   "When they find out how to burn water, And the gasoline car is gone. When an airplane flies without any fuel, And the sunlight heats our home. One of these days when the air clears up, And the sun comes shinin' through. We'll all be drinkin' free bubble-up, An' eatin' that rainbow stew." Merle Haggard: ...   
   The reason I have no hope for America is that the vast majority of Americans prefer white turkey meat to dark turkey meat. I realize that there?s no accounting for taste, but I also realize that dark meat is simply far, far tastier. It?s juicier, more flavorful, and thanks to the unnaturally large-breasted turkeys that ...   
   As the violent crackdown against Syrian dissidents continues, the US government is warning all American citizens in the country to leave immediately, according to CBS. Turkish citizens are also being warned to stay out of the country. The US ambassador to Syria, Robert Ford, was pulled from that country last month. The U.S. embassy continues ...   
   Our parents had that new car smell. We have something else. After the unboxing videos are filmed, and we tell the world on Facebook we have the latest smartphone, people settle down at their computers and hit the ?update smartphone? button. Over a gentle coffee and our first read of the manual, the bugs, flaws, ...   
   The most emotional medium on the web ??cannot deploy its full potential, in an ocean of contents under? ?search engine dictatorship?. This is what happened to videos: rankings and positions are crucial ??in , , Bing etc. But these search engines cannot read ?inside? the moving images, to catch keywords and give them the proper ...   
   In the UK online retail space that is. has soared up the chart of online retail activity to take the number two place for the first time: Since the Hot Shops listing began in 2006, Amazon UK has reigned supreme as the UK's number one online shop. But the launch of the iPhone 4S twinned ...   
   ? Imagine three of the top scientific agencies in the U.S. working with the one of the nation?s top research laboratories try to find out how much BPA you are exposed to when you eat a lot of canned food over 24-hours. Imagine they continuously measure blood and urine to create a picture of human ...   
   ? ? ? After losing the war against customers over debit card fees, banks are now facing another war over the same issue. This time around the war is against??retailers, demanding that the Federal Reserve reduces (the already reduced) fees banks and credit card companies charge them to process debit transactions. In a lawsuit filed ...   
   With the 2011 Major League Gaming season officially in the books, one of the world's best StarCraft II players looks ahead. Sponsored by SteelSeries, which recently announced a sponsorship deal with MLG, Chris "Huk" Loranger plays for Team Liquid. The Canadian StarCraft II Protoss player talks about the rise of eSports and why he isn't ...   
   I know that politicians are required to have an odd view of th world: what else would provide the ego necessary to think that they and they alone have the answers to life?s problems? But when politics meets the green (or even Green) understanding of economics we do end up with some really rather strange ...   
   Thanks to the AFOE blog for the idea for the title: referring of course to the Norwegian Parrot sketch. As they note: In the longer term lending markets, Europe's banks have largely been unable to raise new senior unsecured debt, the bread and butter of their funding, in recent months as investors fret over the ...   
   Jon Huntsman?s vision for a new American military would be good for America and the world, but takes on many sacred cows in the political establishment. It?s become increasingly clear to me what a shame it is that the Republican Party is so in thrall to its far-right fringe. If they weren?t, former Utah governor ...   
   ? ? Things do not look terribly good for Groupon stockholders, especially those who purchased the stock after it made its debut in the US financial markets. Yesterday, the stock closed at $17, below its $20 IPO price. What does it mean for the future of the stock? Should investors sell the stock or buy ...   
   Last week was a busy one in the world of music and business. Much attention has been given to the US launch of ?s iTunes Match service, and of course the ramifications of the ongoing breakup and sale of EMI, with it recorded music arm going to Universal for ??1.2 million ($1.9 million) and its ...   
   In August,??AT&T (T) announced it would create 5,000 call center jobs as a way to boost the odds of regulatory approval for its??$39 billion bid to buy ?s T- I wrote then??that AT&T?s gambit was non-starter. Today AT&T is tapping the closed U.S. financial markets to announce a $4 billion charge??for the high odds that??it ...   
   Navigating the stormy stock market over the past several months has been a tough task. Stocks have rebounded sharply from their lows but volatile days when the major averages swing 3% both up and down are not uncommon.   
   CSX Corp. (NYSE: CSX) has been named as the ''Top Dividend Stock of the Dow Transports'', according to Dividend Channel, which published its most recent ''DividendRank'' report.   The report noted that among the components of the Dow Jones Transportation Average, CSX shares displayed both attractive valuation metrics and strong profitability metrics.  For example, the recent CSX share price of $20.23 represents a price-to-book ratio of 2.6 and an annual dividend yield of 2.4% — by comparison, the average dividend paying stock in the Dow Transports yields 1.7% and trades at a price-to-book ratio of 4.7.  The report also cited the strong quarterly dividend history at CSX Corp., and favorable long-term multi-year growth rates in key fundamental data points.   
   I argued on November 15 that Wall Street believes Germany is bluffing - the reason for market calm in mid-November was American anticipation of Angela Merkel caving in and backing a massive new debt bail-out package for weaker countries. Yet there were several signs that Germany means what it keeps saying: no eurobonds without deep political integration, no massive new ECB intervention, no easy money policy to jack up inflation to 5% or above.   
   Caution is well advised right now-there's more possibility of risk ahead for Europe, as well as the US, says Channing Smith. In Part One of his interview with MoneyShow.com, Smith advises investors to put some money into top-performing blue chips, and keep some cash on hand as global developments unfold.   
   The week is not over and by the close of the market today we are already down 4.5% for the week.  We told readers last night to get long Gold (GLD).  We told our members to get long on Monday and have out performed the market by 5%.  In recent months Gold has had a high correlation between equities.  Gold is know longer an inflationary trade as deflation is now an issue.  However, we think long term Gold will act as a reserve currency opposed to paper based currencies driving prices higher.  We have not hit the max point of pain in the equity markets and look for more draw down before getting long.  Currently, the Vix is only trading $33.98, respectively, the Vix spiked above $45 in October when the S&P 500 broke 1,100.  Risk is not pricing in a panic point yet, be patient, there is no rush to jump in.    As we wrote yesterday, the last several months we have been on target with our calls and in a zone.  Don't get me wrong, after 25 years of being a market technician, I would never be so  arrogant to think I could master Mr. Market.  We told members to get long Sunday October 2nd at 1090 and told everyone who would listen to scale out of the market on the way to our 1275 target.  We have been telling investors to wait for a retracement to 1188 before getting long again.  As the market waits and hopes for a Holiday rally, I see less of a probability for my original year-end target of 1350. However, we will have an opportunity to get long before year-end for a move higher.    Last Friday, we wrote to our Forbes readers that a short term risk was The Super Committees failure to reach any resolution on cuts in the deficit.  We told readers we would be a buyer on that pull back.  Yesterday, we decided to get long Gold instead of the S&P.   Additionally, last week we recommended to our member to start shorting Crude Oil at the $99 to $100 price level.    Look for relative value trades right now, go long utilities & health Care and remain short financials.    The chart below is from our Friday's article, it still relevant with the current market conditions.    For our Free S&P 500 News Letter visit www.thechartlab.com & for our new automated charting visit www.chartlabpro.com   
   My wife and I have three kids, two nieces and tons of friends.  After buying gifts for teenagers for almost two decades, we think we know a thing or two about what to get for older kids.   
   U.S. economic conditions are "terrifying," Mohamed El-Erian said yesterday. El-Erian, as you may know, is Bill Gross' right-hand man at Pimco, the world's largest bond fund. He gives the U.S. a 50/50 chance at a renewed recession.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett has famously advised investors to look for businesses with enduring competitive advantage.   
   An inescapable fact for all Americans is that government intervention in the U.S. economy is becoming increasingly common, particularly since the onset of the financial crisis in late 2008.   
   Investors in financial stocks don't have much to be thankful for this Thanksgiving. Just take a quick look at year-to-date share prices for some of the sector's biggest firms.   
   Brazilian regulators banned Chevron from drilling in the country on Wednesday.  In a statement released late in the trading day, Brazil’s ANP (Agencia Nacional de Petroleo) announced Chevron was banned from drilling, particularly in its ultra deep water pre-salt fields, given the oil spill that occurred on November 9.   
   Lockheed Martin is hoping to offset an expected slowdown in the U.S. government spending by securing contracts for air defense equipment in the Middle East.   
   Hewlett-Packard (HP) today had its estimates and price target changed by Citigroup (C) due to near   
   Cheniere Energy (LNG) today had its estimates and price target raised by Citigroup (C) to $19 with   
   Cathay General Bancorp (CATY) maintained its quarterly dividend of 1 cent per share.   The dividend   
   There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy.  Back on November 16, CF Industries Holdings Inc's Director, Robert G. Kuhbach, invested $42,251.07 into 250 shares of CF, for a cost per share of $169.00.  Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.   
   There's an old saying on Wall Street about insider buying: there are many possible reasons to sell a stock, but only one reason to buy.  Back on September 8, Dynex Capital, Inc.'s EVP & Chief Investment Officer, Byron L. Boston, invested $19,354.68 into 2,297 shares of DX, for a cost per share of $8.43.  Bargain hunters tend to pay particular attention to insider buys like this one, because presumably the only reason an insider would take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock of their company in the open market, is that they expect to make money.   
   Chevron was fined $28 million by the Brazilian government for the oil spill incident off the coast of Rio de Janeiro that has resulted in the leakage of approximately 2,400 barrels of oil into the Atlantic Ocean.   
   As part of its global expansion strategy, McDonald’s recently launched the McCafe brand in Canada.   
   Lackluster economic data didn't do much to help the markets today, as stocks were lower on debt   
   Ever since CEO Carol Bartz’s departure, news is afloat about Yahoo’s potential sell-off or sale of certain assets as investors are idly waiting for a verdict.   
   Caterpillar, the world’s leading maker of heavy construction and mining equipment, recently offered to purchase Chinese underground coal mining equipment manufacturer ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. for up to $894 million.   
   Bargain hunters are wise to pay careful attention to insider buying, because although there are   
   Hewlett-Packard (HP) today had its estimates and price target changed by Citigroup (C) due to near term headwinds and the general economic climate.  Citi sees shares reaching $35 and issued a buy rating on the stock.   
   Cheniere Energy (LNG) today had its estimates and price target raised by Citigroup (C) to $19 with a buy rating.  Estimates were increased based on updated costs of various projects.   
   Sportswear giant signs its biggest-ever athlete sponsorship with Jamaican sprinter.   
   Reshma Saujani, the would-be first Indian-American woman in Congress, hones her stance on innovation and immigration reform.   
   Micky Fung's Touchmedia serves ads to riders in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou.   
   Simon Cowell cuts the first of many big royalties checks for the talent-show singer.   
   Albert Gubay is pledging most of his fortune to charity, fulfilling a promise made early in his career.   
   Actress may have no shot at winning $100 million suit over E*Trade ad, but winning isn't the only motivation for legal action.   
   Offices of billionaire Richard Li's companies reported searched.   
   He may be one of the wealthiest people in Japan, but can Kyocera founder Kazuo Inamori turn around a bankrupt carrier?   
   Sebastian Pinera is favored to win a likely January run-off against Eduardo Frei after failing to win majority in first round of voting.   
   Former leader stirs controversy ahead of his appearance before U.K. inquiry into 2003 invasion of Iraq.   
   Malaysian tycoon Vincent Tan picks up social networking site Friendster.   
   Geely Automobile's Li Shufu saw his net worth surge this week.   
   An Asia media tycoon's animated 'news' reports -- of Tiger Woods and local crime -- draw scrutiny.   
   Police are investigating the businessman behind the expansion of China's largest private airline.   
   Belgium's prime minister takes over the newly created role as Europe looks down a long slow road to economic recovery.   
   A Richard Behar profile of Sy Syms, the pioneer discount retailer who died Nov. 17, first published in Forbes magazine, Sept. 9 1985.   
   Misunderstanding about the death of her feline namesake leads to red faces in Canada.   
   The American billionaire's latest purchase of shares fuels rumors of a possible takeover.   
   Survey shows social networking sites are costing U.K. firms $2.3B a year, but they shouldn't be banned.   
   Fund's more flexible credit line is a step toward more help, but far too small to cool the crisis.   
   The sight of police indiscriminately using pepper spray in , and, most recently, at the University of California in Davis has sparked near-universal condemnation.   
   Brazil's top five large cap names to buy and hold, according to stock forecasters at ValuEngine.   
   This is an excerpt from a Nov. 21, 2011 research note by Michael Cembalest, the chief investment officer for JPMorgan Private Bank. You can read the entire note here, and you should, especially if you care about redressing misperceptions that lead to flawed energy policies. His conclusion is that our quest for fossil-fuel replacements has [...]   
   The global financial crisis almost wrecked Suzlon. But the company's chairman and managing director, Tulsi Tanti, held his nerve and changed strategies. And now, he's dreaming big again.   
   Increasing, more Chinese are shopping on line than ever before. Online shopping growth rates to beat the U.S. over next three years, says Bain & Company.   
   Foreign manufacturers like doing business in Thailand. Political instability is a drag, but commercial life goes on regardless, and investors (and tourists) keep coming back for more.   
   Uhuru Kenyatta, a deputy Prime minister and the son of Kenya's first President, Jomo Kenyatta, has declared his interest in running for the 2012 Presidential elections of the Republic of Kenya.   
   Central bank tells banks to test portfolios for a crisis, and then some.   
   Wal-Mart, whose brand is all about low, low prices and whose actual brick-and-mortar big boxes are, shall we say, highly functional but not necessarily aesthetically pleasing. They don’t have, in other words, the ambiance of an Apple retail store where glitzy mobile applications and in-store shopping experiences are de rigueur.   
   Black Friday is around the corner, and retailers are slashing the prices of some of the biggest tech products for the occasion.   
   In an ocean of contents, the most emotional medium on the web  cannot realize its full potential, a victim of  "search engine dictatorship." This is what happened to videos: Ranking and position are crucial  in Google, Yahoo, Bing etc. But these search engines cannot read "inside" the moving images to catch keywords and give them the proper visibility. Until they can, only written words can help to spread the value of video contents.   
   In the UK online retail space that is. Apple has soared up the chart of online retail activity to take the number two place for the first time:     Since the Hot Shops listing began in 2006, Amazon UK has reigned supreme  as the UK’s number one online shop. But the launch of the iPhone 4S  twinned with the sad passing of Steve Jobs saw Apple’s web traffic  increase five-fold this quarter and for the first time ever, Argos  dipped from second to third position, while Apple has leapt into second  place. In October 2011, Apple accounted for one in every 250 visits from  UK internet users.     So far so fun but there's more to these numbers than they are explaining there are.   
   I know that politicians are required to have an odd view of th world: what else would provide the ego necessary to think that they and they alone have the answers to life's problems? But when politics meets the green (or even Green) understanding of economics we do end up with some really rather strange results:     Households currently pay £89 a year on their bills for the green energy drive, but this will increase every year to reach £280 by 2020, according to the Government’s Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC).   
   Thanks to the AFOE blog for the idea for the title: referring of course to the Norwegian Parrot sketch. As they note:     In the longer term lending markets, Europe’s banks have largely been  unable to raise new senior unsecured debt, the bread and butter of  their funding, in recent months as investors fret over the effects of  the eurozone crisis.     Banks, as we all know, borrow money in order to lend it to others, making their living on the difference in interest rates. If a bank cannot borrow then it cannot lend (although it is often true that the lending decision comes first). This does not bode well for the wider economy if the banks cannot borrow.   
   In August, AT&T (T) announced it would create 5,000 call center jobs as a way to boost the odds of regulatory approval for its $39 billion bid to buy Deutsche Telekom's T-Mobile USA. I wrote then that AT&T's gambit was non-starter.   
   The leaders of Germany, France and Italy are set for a debate about the European Central Bank's role in region debt crisis and on how to align eurozone economic policies.   
   When Groupon went public a few weeks ago, I warned at the time that we should be skeptical of the IPO.   
   Nickelback won’t earn a penny for headlining the halftime show at the Thanksgiving Day game between the Detroit Lions and Green Bay Packers. And the reason might come as a bit of a surprise to many.   
   Space. We always seem to need more of it. I have a 2+ car garage and my automobiles have never seen the inside of it. That space is a workshop, my own personal hackerspace.  It started me thinking about what it would really take to light a startup fire for hackers, makers, and inventors so that more companies get started and off the ground.  Do we need more space? Do we need more collaboration? Is there any shortage of great ideas in the USA or around the world? This map alone should inspire you.   
   The European Commission has officially cleared the acquisition of Hitachi GST by Western Digital if WD will sell off some assets.  Back in March 2011 Western Digital agreed to acquire Hitachi GST for $4.3 B.  Although approved by the US, European regulators have put a bigger barrier to the merger of the two companies with their official approval withheld until the last couple of weeks in November.  Note that Hitachi GST was recently renamed Vititi Technologies.   
   Eliot Spitzer tricked the public into thinking he was a no-nonsense prosecutor the same way the criminals behind the so-called Climategate charade are trying to trick the public into believing climate scientists are scoundrels.   
      The U.S. government could save the economy hundreds of billions of dollars annually by 2050 by expanding support for energy innovation, according to the results of a three-year research project at the Harvard Kennedy School. The report, “Transforming U.S. Energy Innovation,” begins: “The United States and the world need a revolution   
   Ten charts that will convince people to support energy efficiency   
      Occupy Wall Street wants to occupy Black Friday and discourage shoppers. But discouraging economic activity is the exact opposite of what protesters say they want. Apparently Occupy Wall Street protesters around the country are planning protests at big box stores and other national retailers in order to either A) help spur   
   Back on October 22nd, Occupy Chicago took up a new tactic. A week earlier, the protest group suffered its first setback when 175 demonstrators were arrested, quite peacefully, by the CPD at Grant Park. During the next Saturday march, speakers and chanters railed against the usual Wall St. suspects. But they also reserved time and ire for our new Mayor, blasting him for his role in the arrests and his policies. Since then---in demonstrations against Emanuel's business friends, his Aldermen, and the man himself---the protesters have taken a liking to the term "our 1% Mayor."    A similar wave swept across the other encampments. Bloomberg now has his drum circle, Jean Quan has her undesired attention in Oakland, and groups like Occupy D.C. are targeting issues (Walmart's expansion) that are essentially parochial. As city officials considered how to deal with occupiers, the occupiers turned on the cities.    And of course there is the whole police thing. I have a new piece up at GOOD that tries to tackle this issue, pulling back to look at the figures on city policing, crime and occupations:   
   My wife and I have three kids, two nieces and tons of friends.  After buying gifts for teenagers for almost two decades, we think we know a thing or two about what to get for older kids.   
   After rumors last month that Sony Pictures plans to do movie on Steve Jobs based on Walter Isaacson's new biography of the late Apple co-founder, now we hear that celebrated screenwriter Aaron Sorkin is considering whether to write the screenplay.   
   U.S. economic conditions are "terrifying," Mohamed El-Erian said yesterday. El-Erian, as you may know, is Bill Gross' right-hand man at Pimco, the world's largest bond fund. He gives the U.S. a 50/50 chance at a renewed recession.   
   Forbes gets a rare look inside China's telecom trailblazer.   
   Is manufacturing the wave of the future in the US or the heritage of the past?  The issue was raised at Manufacturing First, a Wisconsin conference organized by First Business Bank, Insight Magazine and the New Manufacturing Alliance. Manufacturing is finally getting some attention from Harvard and MIT which used to focus   
   With many new technologies available, there's more than one way to go green   
   The highly-anticipated 2012  3 Series Sedan has not yet made its North American debut, but BMW has already announced pricing.   
   Smart shoppers can take advantage of deep discounts on select new cars and trucks as the end of the calendar year approaches.   
   The last time I visited Washington, D.C. was when I was 11, enjoying but not really paying attention to the private tour of the White House arranged through a colleague of my father, who worked for U.P.I. at the time. I don't remember much about the White House except for dashing around a dog-eared velvet rope and plunking a few keys on a grand piano before being shooed by a guard who whispered "That's Harry Truman's piano, kid."   
   Electric vehicles are the cutting edge of the car market today. They feature high tech engines, batteries straight out of science fiction movies, and other goodies that set them apart even more than their ability to drive hundreds of miles on a couple of gallons of gasoline. With the emphasis on technology, it is no surprise that these cars are being linked into the growing app market. Three of the leading EV car manufacturers have released apps that are meant to make owning and operating an EV easier than ever through your Android or iPhone.   
   In the third quarter of 2011, Toyota continued to suffer from reduced vehicle sales in Japan and North America, which was partially offset by increasing sales in Asia and Europe.   
   The recent debate over raising the national debt ceiling and trying to get some type of a grip on the ever growing federal deficit has put all major federal spending programs under the microscope. In this light, I think there is one major program that is imperative to ensure the steady growth of our economy and the integrity of our national defense. We need an interstate network of semi-public restrooms.   
   Foreign manufacturers like doing business in Thailand. Political instability is a drag, but commercial life goes on regardless, and investors (and tourists) keep coming back for more. Even the sight of tooled-up mobs battling troops in downtown Bangkok in 2010 quickly faded as visitors returned to the capital. Yet the impact from the recent floods will be harder to dispel. The deadly flooding has been hugely disruptive for global automobile and PC supply chains, in which Thailand plays a crucial role. PC companies may face an acute shortage of hard disk drives (HDDs) over the next several months. Japanese automakers, which are the largest foreign investors in Thailand, are struggling to recover their lost output. The Thai government's flailing response, and the risk of future floods, has raised the country's risk profile. Insurers are facing huge claims and will want to know what flood mitigation efforts are in place at Thailand's inundated factory estates before they assume future liabilities.   
   General Motors is hoping that its investments in South America will pay off through sales growth in the medium-term. This is expected to occur when most other major auto companies in Europe and the U.S. are expected to be battling an economic slowdown.   
   The 2011 Los Angeles Auto Show is open to the public until November 27, 2011. Here are a few of the luxury and performance highlights from this year's show, photographed by Jason Fogelson.   
   After Republican lawmakers assailed the Obama administration for awarding a $730 million loan to steel and mining company Severstal, Russian billionaire and Severstal CEO Alexei Mordashov responded to critics in an interview with Forbes, saying that he was "quite surprised" by the opposition to something so "simple and straightforward."   
   Ford is known for manufacturing some of the best and most original vehicles available. So why is the new Escape a clone of the Honda CR-V?   
   Ford recorded car sales of 49,994 in October 2011, a drop of 8% from 54,430 in October 2010.   
   Genetic testing represents one the most exciting, and frightening, frontiers in medicine.  Testing a person's genome can reveal critical information about diseases to prevent and medications to take.  It may also tell people about susceptibility to debilitating conditions that they can do very little to avoid.  Because people can't alter their genome, the chinks in genes need to be guarded with zealous privacy, and they must be explained very carefully so that both physicians and patients fully understand their implications.   
   Going green can be a safety advantage for occupants of hybrids in crashes, but pedestrians are at greater risk, according to two reports released on Thursday.   
   A year after its IPO General Motors stock has flopped. Yet profits are strong, and the cars are the best they've been in years.   
   The fourth generation CR-V will make its debut as a 2012 model, scheduled to hit dealerships on December 15, 2011. The 2012 Honda CR-V will arrive with base prices from $21,000 to $30,000, and with a 3-year/36,000-mile basic warranty, a 5-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty and EPA fuel economy estimates of 23 mpg city/31 mpg highway (front-wheel drive) and 22 mpg city/30 mpg highway (all-wheel drive).   
   The fourth generation CR-V will make its debut as a 2012 model, scheduled to hit dealerships on December 15, 2011. Photographed by Jason Fogelson.   
   With so many worthy makes and models of new cars and trucks on the market these days, we had to look long and hard to quantify which just don’t make the grade.   
   With so many worthy new cars and trucks on the market these days, we had to look long and hard to quantify which just don't make the grade.   
   Coda Automotive’s $40,000 electric car may not turn heads but the Los Angeles startup is betting that customers will be drawn by what’s under the hood, so to speak: A battery that gives the bland sedan a 150-mile range between charges.   
       When I think of Los Angeles, I can’t help but think of food trucks. Nissan has embraced the local food truck craze with the display of the Nissan NV food Truck at the LA Auto Show. This is just one of the clever ways auto companies will address the intersections   
   About three years ago Adam wrote about the the story of I'On Village, a New Urbanist development build about a decade ago five miles outside of Charleston, and the difficulties that Vince Graham faced trying to build it. For one, the project had to be scaled down in some pretty significant ways:   
   All you need to know about the Zenvo ST1 is that unless you're Carlos Slim, Bill Gates or Warren Buffett, it's out of your price range.   
   The tycoons from the world's fourth most populous nation show there are still plenty of ways for them to get rich at home.   
   Billionaire investor and contrarian Thiel opens applications to a second class of "20 Under 20" who are choosing to start companies instead of attend college.   
   IMG Chairman lost his battle against brain cancer today just months after the billionaire was diagnosed.   
   Summit Series is calling on its members to fund a shark sanctuary   
   ? This story appears (in a different form) in the December 5, 2011 issue of Forbes magazine. drew lots of attention to himself a few months ago for paying a very low rate of income taxes. Ever wonder what the simple-living billionaire investor pays in property taxes? He?s lived in the same house in , ...   
   The youth league of the African National Congress is calling for nationalizing South Africa's mines - the very business from which Motsepe has built his fortune.   
   The Haslams got their start pumping gas in a gas station. Now they are among the wealthiest and most powerful families in Tennessee.   
   Billionaire's money-losing carrier hits major turbulence   
   Digital entrepreneur and Facebook billionaire Sean Parker partnered with Silicon Valley angel investor Ron Conway to produce a viral video backing interim San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee for election. But he won't be voting in the election -- he doesn't live in San Francisco.   
   Most of us do not have the resources of billionaire collectors Edye and Eli Broad, Norman and Irma Braman or Doris Fisher. But there are ways to get involved in the art scene.   
   Alice Walton--one of the richest people on the planet ($20.9 billion )--will appear on CBS Sunday Morning to talk art, her Crystal Bridges Museum and growing up in the Walton family.   
   Ofra Strauss, chairperson of publicly traded Israeli company Strauss Foods, spent seven hours talking with protesters who showed up in front of her house in August. Now she's trying to change her company to address their concerns.   
   The number of entrepreneurs who made their fortunes in social networking continues to grow, as two jump into the billionaire ranks.   
   Nicky Oppenheimer and his family agree to sell their 40% stake in De Beers to Anglo American for $5.1 billion.   
   Billionaire Eduardo Saverin continues to reinvent himself as an early stage venture investor.   
   TorchStone Global prescribes these strategies to tycoons preparing for the worst.   
   Breyer says his firm Accel Partners is investing more in China this year than it is in the U.S.   
   Billionaire's second phase has him on quest to eliminate the world's infectious diseases.   
   U.S. crude oil prices, as measured by WTI, surged last week on the announcement that the Seaway pipeline would be reversed, alleviating part of the bottleneck at Cushing, but that is still not enough to close the gap with Brent.   
   I know that politicians are required to have an odd view of th world: what else would provide the ego necessary to think that they and they alone have the answers to life's problems? But when politics meets the green (or even Green) understanding of economics we do end up with some really rather strange results:     Households currently pay £89 a year on their bills for the green energy drive, but this will increase every year to reach £280 by 2020, according to the Government’s Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC).   
   Eliot Spitzer tricked the public into thinking he was a no-nonsense prosecutor the same way the criminals behind the so-called Climategate charade are trying to trick the public into believing climate scientists are scoundrels.   
   Ten charts that will convince people to support energy efficiency   
      The U.S. government could save the economy hundreds of billions of dollars annually by 2050 by expanding support for energy innovation, according to the results of a three-year research project at the Harvard Kennedy School. The report, “Transforming U.S. Energy Innovation,” begins: “The United States and the world need a revolution   
   Chevron was fined $28 million by the Brazilian government for the oil spill incident off the coast of Rio de Janeiro that has resulted in the leakage of approximately 2,400 barrels of oil into the Atlantic Ocean.   
   Despite a fragile global economy and snail’s pace-growth in the U.S., activity has been fierce in the oil and gas sector, particularly related to shale plays.  On Wednesday, a group led by KKR announced it was acquiring the private energy company Samson for $7.2 billion, in what is lining up to be the year’s largest leveraged buyout.   
   I have been shouting this for years, that jobs are a cost not a benefit of a scheme or a plan, and yet the mantra still gets trotted out as if creating jobs is a benefit of a scheme. Take this: it's being used as a justification to halt the drilling for shale gas and carry on building windmills instead:     Shale gas exploration also supports fewer jobs than renewable energy  generation – hundreds of thousands of jobs could be created in offshore  wind, solar power and other green energy, but drilling shale gas wells  requires minimal manpower.     It is simply nonsense that we should prefer using the labour of more people to achieve a goal than using less labour to achieve the same goal. Absolute, arrant, nonsense.   
   Oh my, this is just lovely: one of Europe's great anti-radiation cranks has been found endorsing some very strange theories about radiation in Japan after Fukushima. The story turns up in The Guardian and is partly by George Monbiot (to whom great kudos, willing to take on those who are   
   Suntech Power this morning reported disappointing Q3 results and cut its full year forecast, as weak demand and sliding prices continue to take a toll on the business. Four major solar companies reported results this morning, and all four reported weak results as a result of the difficult conditions in the industry.   
   JA Solar shares are trading sharply lower Tuesday on weak Q3 results.   
   Canadian Solar shares are trading lower Tuesday morning following weaker than expected Q3 results.   
   Move over Energizer Bunny, there's a new battery in town and this one is thin, green and printable. Out of the frozen beauty that is Finland comes Enfucell, a company that has created a thin, flexible and eco-friendly soft battery. When I say this represents a new generation in battery technology, I mean it.   
   Micro-CHP may be the key to achieving the United Kingdom’s ambitious energy and  environmental policy goals, according to a new report by JDS Associates.   
   Chevron (CVX) was fined R$50 million, or $27.5 million, for an oil spill 74 miles off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, the Brazilian Environmental Protection Agency, Ibama, said Monday.   
   This map shows the geothermal potential over the entire country of Australia. According to an analysis by Hot Dry Rocks, a geothermal consulting group, and Google, just 2% of Australia's geothermal potential could generate ten times more electricity than its total coal and gas electricity production today. (Image credit: Hot Dry Rocks)   
   According to a poll by The Economist taken during last week's virtual Global Energy Conference, just 15% of respondents think that any substantial deals on climate change will be reached at next week's COP-17 in Durban, South Africa.  Brazil, on the other hand, is keeping the faith.   
   Tomorrow will be a big day for the Claymore/MAC Global Solar Index (TAN), as several major players in the solar sector are set to release their quarterly earnings reports before the open.  Those on the docket include Trina Solar Limited (TSL), Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ), JA Solar Holdings Co. Ltd. (JASO), LDK Solar Co. Ltd. (LDK), and Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. (STP).   
   A Chevron (CVX) oil spill 74 miles off the coast of Rio de Janeiro has been contained, with the surface water oil sheen now down to around 18 barrels of oil from more than 60 a few days ago.   
   Chevron (CVX) recognized this weekend that an error in calculating the reservoir pressure caused the oil spill in the Frade field far off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.  The spill occurred on Nov. 7 and was first blamed on a geological crack in the seabed rather than a miscalculation on the part of Chevron.   
   The havoc wreaked on Connecticut's electric-power grid by a freak snow storm in October claimed a high-profile casualty on Thursday in the form of Connecticut Light & Power's (CL&P) president and CEO, Jeff Butler.   
       Once again, people want something for nothing. According to a poll by The Economist, 79% of respondents say that they who would support political reforms combating climate change if those changes had no effect on their real income. But the number completely collapses when you ask if they have   
   Chesapeake Energy posted a 9% increase in production levels over the previous quarter in its third quarter.   
   Forbes gets a rare look inside China's telecom trailblazer.   
   Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corporation CMO explains how simplicity drives his advertising.   
   It has been a rough few months for utility companies in the northeast. After Hurricane Irene and the recent October snowstorm, the phrase "Good morning" was often replaced with "Do you have power?" in many northeastern offices, schools and neighborhood cafes. I don't envy these utilities companies: two unusual weather events combined with an aging ...   
   Jennie Finch on her NYC Marathon run, life after softball, and how to improve Forbes softball.   
   Managing Director Luis Gallardo says simplicity is not always the answer.   
   As the lines continue to blur between advertising, marketing and public relations, a sound communications strategy is necessary among several different departments if the brand's goal is ever going to be achieved. But with this convergence, it's hard to firmly establish who came up with an idea. Was it the marketing team's idea? Was it ...   
   Will Seccombe on cleaning up Florida's brand post oil spill.   
   Christine Owens and Maureen Healy of UPS on engaging and connecting with customers.   
   Cigna's Maggie FitzPatrick explains the company's 'Go You' campaign.   
   Gary Hamel of London School of Business on the evolution of management and why it matters.   
   Visa's Antonio Lucio defines alignment of local and global as job one.   
   Extension furthers brewer's goal to make Budweiser a global brand.   
   Forbes' John Dobosz goes downtown to talk to the protesters at Occupy Wall Street.   
   The Journelle CEO gets intimate on inspiration and expansion   
       As part of Forbes.com's Human Ingenuity series, we ask staff writers, contributors and experts to weigh in with solutions to some of the nation's biggest problems.  This month's focus is on reforming health care.  We asked for responses to the following question:  What's one great idea for reducing health   
          Image by Getty Images via @daylife The medical community is buzzing with concern this afternoon over what the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction means for healthcare providers and recipients. Under the ‘trigger’ provisions agreed upon during the August debt default crisis, were the super-committee to fail to arrive   
   Note to readers: An earlier version of this story stated that the FDA may be concerned about the conduct of the CHAMPION trial. This statement could be construed as an implication of ethical misconduct or negligence on the part of the trial sponsors or investigators. I apologize if I conveyed this impression in the earlier story. This story has been further updated below, as indicated in the text.   
   In the wake of the dismissal of Don Poldermans from the Erasmus Medical Center due to scientific misconduct (for background see this and this) the European Society of Cardiology has announced that Poldermans has resigned from his position as chairperson of the task force that created the ESC practice guidelines for preoperative cardiac risk assessment and preoperative cardiac management in non-cardiac surgery.   
   I have the good fortune of teaching students at Vanderbilt’s Owen Graduate School of Management. Holding forth on my favorite topic recently – health care – I once again found myself overturning many misconceptions.   
   Pat Mastors, a patient safety advocate, has written a clever blog post called, “A Few More Minutes with Andy Rooney.” Channeling the curmudgeonly tones of a 60 Minutes commentary, it begins:    I died last week, just a month after I said goodbye to you all from this very desk. I had a long and happy life – well, as happy as a cranky old guy could ever be. 92. Not bad. And gotta say, seeing my Margie, and Walter, and all my old friends again is great.    But then I read what killed me: “serious complications following minor surgery.”    Now what the heck is that?    The blog goes on to have Rooney ask for someone to find out what actually killed him. This has offended some respondents who, blinded by their own biases, think a writer using a celebrity’s death to push for information that could be used to improve care is the same thing as accusing his physicians of negligence or hauling Rooney’s family into court to publicly disclose private details.   
   Since financial planners look to me to explain things related to health and finance, it was natural that I read the entire health care reform law.  Fortunately, I love a good novel, and nothing excited me quite so much since reading the full version of “Paradise Lost.”  This is really true – I enjoyed it.  An overview is important as a base for my upcoming posts.   
   Long-term followup of patients enrolled in the Heart Protection Study (HPS) demonstrates continued benefits in the group originally randomized to receive simvastatin instead of placebo. The main results of the HPS, published in 2002, showed a significant 23% reduction at 5.3 years in major vascular events associated with simvastatin treatment among the 20,536 patients with coronary disease enrolled in the trial.   
   My last post discussed the reasons why neglected diseases have historically been neglected, the growing efforts to eradicate them, and why pharmaceutical companies should develop more drugs for them.   
   Geneticists working at Texas Biomedical Research Institute have identified an 'echo' of a gene in the brain that disposes people to alcoholism.   
   As part of Forbes.com's Human Ingenuity series, we ask staff writers, contributors and experts to weigh in with solutions to some of the nation's biggest problems.  This month's focus is on reforming health care.  We asked each to weigh in with one great idea for reducing costs while still providing high quality care.  This response is from Jason Hwang of the Innosight Institute, the non-profit think tank founded by Clayton Christensen.   
   Move over Energizer Bunny, there's a new battery in town and this one is thin, green and printable. Out of the frozen beauty that is Finland comes Enfucell, a company that has created a thin, flexible and eco-friendly soft battery. When I say this represents a new generation in battery technology, I mean it.   
   Imagine that on a day just like any other, you grab your mail and start thumbing through the ads and solicitations per usual, and you come across a “pre-approval” letter from a bank offering you a credit card.  You open it expecting to see the typical application and prepaid envelope—but this time you find something else as well.   
   In August, I wrote about how hospital monopolies are the biggest driver of health costs that nobody talks about. These powerful hospital chains know that insurers have no choice but to accept their jacked-up rates, and the cost of health insurance goes up whenever it suits their needs. Now, according to remarks by Federal Trade Commissioner J. Thomas Rosch, it turns out that accountable care organizations—one of Obamacare’s most touted policy gizmos—could make this problem far worse. “The net result” of ACOs, says Rosch, “may therefore be higher costs and lower quality health care—precisely the opposite of its goal.”   
   On Friday, FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg announced that the agency was revoking its approval of best-selling cancer drug Avastin for breast cancer. This decision is no surprise, coming on the heels of advice from the agency’s panel of outside experts last August, which itself was triggered by Genentech’s failed phase III trial of Avastin in breast cancer. I continue to fail to understand why conservatives are up in arms over the FDA’s decision. If anything, the way FDA has handled Avastin should be a model for future regulatory decisions.   
   Advice and insight from Forbes on exercise and healthy aging, living with elderly parents, buying long-term care insurance and nursing home quality.   
   Scientists disagree on outlook, but there is hope to head off the devastation.   
   Never to shy away from difficult conversations, I’m starting this blog with health care reform.  People love to ask, “Are you in favor of health care reform?”  Most people I’ve spoken with around the country think health care is broken, which means we need reform.  Did the Affordable Care Act provide the reform we need?  In my next many installments, I share with you what is in the law, and then you can decide.   
   More workers than ever are being offered (or pushed into) high deductible health plans at work. While having to pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars in deductibles may sound off-putting at first, there’s a silver lining: these plans often come with an optional health savings account. For savvy savers, it’s an incredible hidden way to prefund healthcare costs in retirement.   
   For quite some time, Genentech has had the luxury - although some might say the misfortune - of competing against itself in the lucrative market for treating the wet form of age-related macular degeneration, a leading cause of severe vision loss in the elderly. Now, though, the Roche unit is getting competition and a key question is whether the drugmaker will, pardon the expression, blink.   
   Following the announcement of a definitive agreement for Gilead Sciences (GILD) to acquire Pharmasset (VRUS), Canaccord Genuity life sciences analyst George Farmer, Ph.D. in a note to investors, “We see this providing clear validation of VRUS’s nuc prodrug platform, led by PSI-7977.”   
   Gilead Sciences of Foster City, Calif., could re-energize investors with its all-cash purchase of Pharmasset of Princeton, N.J.'s Pharmasset, announced this morning, despite the deal's very high price.   
   More details have emerged about the research scandal in the Netherlands, in which prominent Erasmus Medical Center cardiovascular researcher Don Poldermans was fired for scientific misconduct. Anonymously leaked portions of a report from the Erasmus Medical Center investigation first appeared on Scribd over the weekend. Later an executive summary of the report, dated November 16, appeared on the Erasmus website. All the documents are in Dutch. Here is a brief summary, based on help received from Google Translate, Babel Fish, and native Dutch speakers.   
   I haven’t bothered to write much about the Congressional Supercommittee, that august body that will determine the fate of $1.2 trillion in spending cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act passed earlier this year in the debt-ceiling deal. (It has seemed pointless, given the unpredictability of the final result.) But yesterday in the Wall Street Journal, former U.S. Senator Phil Gramm (R., Tex.) and one of his old staffers, Mike Solon, made a very interesting observation: if the supercommittee fails, and Republicans take power in 2012, a procedural footnote in the Budget Control Act would allow the GOP to make lasting reforms to our health-care entitlements.   
   There’s a famous (in some circles) joke about a rabbi asked to mediate a dispute between two people, with whom he decided to meet individually.  After listening thoughtfully to the first complainant, he replied, “I see what you’re saying, and I think you’re right.”  Then, he met with the second aggrieved party, listened, and pronounced, “Very compelling, and I think you’re right.”  His secretary, overhearing both of these conversations, said, “Rabbi – it doesn’t make any sense – both people can’t be right.”  To which he responded, “You know, you’re right too!”   
   The best selling cancer drug in the world for breast cancer is Avastin.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has just announced that Avastin is no longer an approved drug to treat metastatic breast cancer.   
       Image by Getty Images via @daylife The LA Galaxy won the MLS Cup last night, beating the Houston Dynamo 1-0 in Los Angeles. It may have been the last Major League Soccer game for David Beckham, a global brand that continues to be a cash cow off   
   Nickelback won’t earn a penny for headlining the halftime show at the Thanksgiving Day game between the Detroit Lions and Green Bay Packers. And the reason might come as a bit of a surprise to many.   
   My initial thoughts on the Penn State tragedy – it is more tragedy than  scandal – was incredulity as to the breadth and length of its  existence. Although much of the focus was on one night where assistant  coach Mike McQueary came upon a horrific scene, that incident may be one of many -- dozens perhaps -- over the course of many years.   
   The P90X creator gives a preview of his new exercise program, P90X2.   
   Last month Disney chief executive Robert Iger announced that he will step down from his CEO position in 2015. Now ESPN head George Bodenheimer has announced that he will also be giving up his day to day duties. Both men will stay on with Disney as executive chairmen.   
   It's looking more like Penn State's apparent cover-up of the alleged sex crimes of former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky was less about protecting Sandusky personally, and more about how the football program, and head coach Joe Paterno (until he was recently deposed), pretty much ran the school and expected everyone there to leave it the hell alone, no matter what. (You probably caught that vibe in The Wall Street Journal article about Paterno's standing in the football stadium door to keep campus disciplinary officials from meting out punishment again his players.)   
   C’mon admit it – you’ve often wondered whether you should splurge on some piece of sports memorabilia.  If you’re a kid from the ‘50s like me, maybe it’s a Rocky Colavito autograph, a Jim Brown jersey, a Ted  Kluszewski sleeveless shirt, a Bill Russell or Bob Cousy basketball, or anything of Willie Mays or Mickey Mantle.    
   One of the arguments used in persuading places to host the Olympics, or in fact any other great sporting or cultural event, is that they will attract tourists.   
   The final sale price of the Dallas Stars and half of American Airlines Center to Tom Gaglardi resulted in a huge haircut for creditors of Hicks Sports Group and the National Hockey League team.   
     Sponsor Post        Image via Wikipedia Catch the twist in the title? If you do a person a favor, you would expect that person to like you more.  However, the research shows something different. If you do someone a favor, you tend to like that person more as a result. The reason is that we   
   Quite a weekend in college football. Oklahoma , Oklahoma State and Oregon all lose. Stanford, recently unbeaten, had already lost to Oregon the week before. So who’s in line to play No.1 LSU in the national title game? There’s Alabama, but they still have a tough game ahead against Auburn. What if they lose? Another SEC power, Arkansas, is now No. 3 but has lost to Alabama and still has to play LSU. It’s BCS chaos.   
   For Mel Brooks in History of the World Part I, it was good to be the King.   
   One of the most popular interviews I've done to date was with Mark  Cuban back in July. The   column received more traffic than both the Larry King and Donald  Trump  interviews combined! I caught up with Mark again to speak to him about his new ebook called "How to Win at the Sport  of Business: If I Can Do It, You Can Do It (Diversion Books)." It will be  available for $2.99 through online digital-book retailers.   
   After watching the Texas Rangers and Los Angeles Dodgers crash and burn from too much debt, you'd think Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig would be clamping down on excessive leverage and keeping a closer eye on teams abusing baseball's debt rules.   
   In the wake of former Penn State defensive coordinator's Jerry Sandusky's inexplicable NBC television interview with Bob Costas, attorneys report several more potential victims of the accused child sex abuser are stepping forward, according to the future Pulitzer Prize winner Sara Ganim in a story for the Patriot-News in Harrisburg, Pa. Meanwhile, that same interview has people with no connection to Jerry Sandusky contacting attorneys about their victimization as children, according to a National Public Radio report. And on Nov. 18, longtime Syracuse University men's basketball coach Bernie Fine was put on leave while authorities investigate allegations of child sex abuse against him, though head coach Jim Boeheim is, to put it lightly, doubting the veracity of those accusations.   
   Tim Tebow has this ridiculous commercial where he pretends he had all sorts of naysayers in high school and college, and even after last night's comeback 17-13 win for his Denver Broncos over the New York Jets, he extended the narrative by saying he had football doubters "since I was 7 years old trying to play quarterback at Lakeshore." I find that hard to believe, though I also find it repulsive if there were adults in that league already pooh-poohing a future quarterback before his first adult tooth came in. Then again, Tebow's narrative has been built on people saying he would never make it out of the womb, much less be able to play football, so perhaps Tebow automatically hears naysayers where he goes.   
   A marital agreement specifies how a couple’s property shall be divided upon their divorce or the death of one of them.  The purpose of this article is not to displace a party’s counsel in drafting or negotiating a martial agreement, but to help a party to determine whether a martial agreement approved by his or her counsel effectively serves his or her interests.   
   Nascar streamlined its Chase for the Sprint Cup championship this year in search of what Nascar chairman Brian France called "Game 7 moments." Sunday at Homestead-Miami Speedway, France gets his Game 7. Tony Stewart and Carl Edwards will duel for the championship in the last race of the season with Edwards holding a razor-thin three point edge in the Chase standings.   
   Roush Fenway Racing President talks to Forbes about Nascar's fortunes in 2011 and beyond.   
   The past few years haven’t been kind to Nascar. The recession has whacked at sponsorships, attendance and television ratings. The sport’s multi-network, $4.5 billion television contract, signed in 2007, has two more years to run. Sports business experts generally believe Nascar will take a pay cut on the next deal.   
   By Brad Berry, Bleacher Report    The Big 12 has been one of the major victims of the recent conference reshuffling. The conference has lost three of the original Big 8 programs in Colorado, Nebraska and—soon—Missouri and long-time Texas rival Texas A&M.   
   Whom ever buys the Los Angeles Dodgers in a bankruptcy court-led sale from Frank McCourt will have a stack of IOUs to deal with.   
   Okay, c’mon, admit it – you’ve often laughed when you see that FBI warning about how a televised sporting event is copyrighted. Who's gonna know if you illegally copy and show the game? I mean, like what, the G-Men are gonna come and break down your door and drag you out in handcuffs.  Yeah, as if -- right?   
   With straight talk and conservative investments Travelers' Jay Fishman sailed through the WORST. Now a muni-bond upheaval threatens his success.   
   In a good year for investors, these issues led the charge higher.   
   Overall the sector is healthier, but many small banks are struggling. Forbes crunches the numbers to find the strongest and those on shaky ground.   
   Some national chains bend over backward to make redemption easy, while others pile on fees and restrictions.   
   Forbes gets a rare look inside China's telecom trailblazer.   
   Gary Hamel of London School of Business on the evolution of management and why it matters.   
   Forbes' John Dobosz goes downtown to talk to the protesters at Occupy Wall Street.   
   The Journelle CEO gets intimate on inspiration and expansion   
   The week is not over and by the close of the market today we are already down 4.5% for the week.  We told readers last night to get long Gold (GLD).  We told our members to get long on Monday and have out performed the market by 5%.  In recent months Gold has had a high correlation between equities.  Gold is know longer an inflationary trade as deflation is now an issue.  However, we think long term Gold will act as a reserve currency opposed to paper based currencies driving prices higher.  We have not hit the max point of pain in the equity markets and look for more draw down before getting long.  Currently, the Vix is only trading $33.98, respectively, the Vix spiked above $45 in October when the S&P 500 broke 1,100.  Risk is not pricing in a panic point yet, be patient, there is no rush to jump in.    As we wrote yesterday, the last several months we have been on target with our calls and in a zone.  Don't get me wrong, after 25 years of being a market technician, I would never be so  arrogant to think I could master Mr. Market.  We told members to get long Sunday October 2nd at 1090 and told everyone who would listen to scale out of the market on the way to our 1275 target.  We have been telling investors to wait for a retracement to 1188 before getting long again.  As the market waits and hopes for a Holiday rally, I see less of a probability for my original year-end target of 1350. However, we will have an opportunity to get long before year-end for a move higher.    Last Friday, we wrote to our Forbes readers that a short term risk was The Super Committees failure to reach any resolution on cuts in the deficit.  We told readers we would be a buyer on that pull back.  Yesterday, we decided to get long Gold instead of the S&P.   Additionally, last week we recommended to our member to start shorting Crude Oil at the $99 to $100 price level.    Look for relative value trades right now, go long utilities & health Care and remain short financials.    The chart below is from our Friday's article, it still relevant with the current market conditions.    For our Free S&P 500 News Letter visit www.thechartlab.com & for our new automated charting visit www.chartlabpro.com   
   Be thankful for your many blessings and check out some big U.S tech stocks.   
   A German offering of 10-year debt failed to draw the robust support the country has been accustomed to as a safer haven than its European neighbors, and stocks tumbled Wednesday in response as spooked investors fled from any semblance of risk ahead of Thursday's day off for Thanksgiving, Friday's shortened session and the weekend.   
   Until now, Germany had been a key opponent to the creation of a large eurobond market allowing  European Union member states to refinance their debt themselves directly via the issue of bonds guaranteed by the EU, or at least by the eurozone itself. Should Europeans permit eurobonds, they would create a  large and attractive continental debt market which could profit by lower interest rates ( as the United States does, despite a much higher level of public debt).   
   The last several months we have been on target with our calls and in a zone.  Don't get me wrong, after 25 years of being a market technician, I would never be so  arrogant to think I could master Mr. Market.  We told members to get long Sunday October 2nd at 1090 and told everyone who would listen to scale out of the market on the way to our 1275 target.  We have been telling investors to wait for a retracement to 1188 before getting long again.  As the market waits and hopes for a Holiday rally, I see less of a probability for my original year-end target of 1350. However, we will have an opportunity to get long before year-end for a move higher.    Last Friday, we wrote to our Forbes readers that a short term risk was The Super Committees failure to reach any resolution on cuts in the deficit.  We told readers we would be a buyer on that pull back.  Yesterday, we decided to get long Gold instead of the S&P.  Even though we have seen a high correlation between equities and gold recently because of deflationary fears, we think long term Gold will act as a reserve currency opposed to paper based currencies.  Today GLD outperformed the S&P by roughly 1.50%.   Additionally, last week we recommended to our member to start shorting Crude Oil at the $99 to $100 price level.    For those of you who do not own Gold wait for the 1,605 to 1,650 level before getting long.  The chart below is from our Friday's article.    For our Free S&P 500 News Letter visit www.thechartlab.com & for our new automated charting visit www.chartlabpro.com   
   The cash-rich tech stocks are trending higher as gold takes a break.   
   Major U.S. banks are required to submit detailed capital plans to Ben Bernanke and the Federal Reserve on an annual basis, and the 2012 model requires a gut-check on just how much pain a firm can take if we get a repeat of the 2008 crisis with a European meltdown thrown in for good measure.   
   Investors have had plenty to sort through thus far in a holiday-shortened week, and Tuesday’s inputs included a downward revision to U.S. growth, signals that the Federal Reserve is still mulling ways to support the economy and a move by the International Monetary Fund that appears a minor step toward providing additional aid for debt-riddled Euro zone governments.   
   The FOMC minutes for the two-day November meeting suggest that under current economic circumstances the Federal Reserve will have to engage in a third round of quantitative easing.  A few members of the FOMC pushed Bernanke for further accommodative policy in the last FOMC meeting, with Charlie Evans of the Chicago Fed actually dissenting in favor of more QE.   
   Last Friday, we wrote to our Forbes readers that a short term risk was The Super Committees failure to reach any resolution on cuts in the deficit.  We told readers we would be a buyer on that pull back, as our readers know, we have been saying sell equities in the 1275 region for several weeks and wait for 1188 before buying.  Yesterday, we decided to get long Gold instead of the S&P.  Even though we have seen a high correlation between equities and gold recently because of deflationary fears, we think long term Gold will act as a reserve currency opposed to paper based currencies.   
   Third quarter GDP growth was downwardly revised to 2%, from 2.5% by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, adding another weight to the monetary policy scale that seems to be definitely tilting toward the side of more policy accommodation.  Economists are not debating if but when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will engage in the next round of asset purchases, or QE3, which, according to Nomura, will come in mid-2012.   
   Global currency devaluation could be a driver of inflation, cautions James Dailey, manager of the TEAM Asset Strategy Fund (TEAMX). To address that risk, his fund holds top-quality blue chips, gold miners, and money-market treasuries, which he uses as a cash proxy.   
   President Obama spoke after the Supercommittee's announcement that it failed to reach an agreement on spending cuts, telling lawmakers to get with the program and reach an agreement for the U.S. people.   
   Investors are left rubbing their eyes as stocks decline on rough news out of Spain and France.   
   In a statement released after the bell, the so-called budget deficit Supercommittee officially announced it failed to produce $1.2 trillion in budget cuts over the next decade.  Their failure, anticipated by many, led to a substantial market plunge on Monday and will supposedly trigger the automatic sequester proposition, which is designed to enact $1.2 trillion in cuts, evenly split between defense and domestic spending.   
   U.S. markets get a breather this week, closing for Thanksgiving Thursday. The respite can’t come soon enough though, with stocks under significant pressure Monday and closing around 2% lower, albeit above the session's worst levels. Renewed uncertainty  had investors selling first and asking questions later after the apparent failure of U.S. lawmakers to reach a deficit reduction deal and fresh worries that the European debt crisis is spreading into Spain and France.   
   Last week the European Central Bank purchased $10.8 billion (8 billion euros) in government bonds, up from $6 billion in bonds the week before. Much of that probably contained Spanish and Italian bonds, according to MarketWatch, as both nations saw the spreads in their sovereign bonds soar to record positions last week, as rates fell.   
   U.S. stocks got a less than cheerful start to a holiday-shortened week Monday, as worries over European debt were joined by rising concerns that a similar scenario may be playing out on this side of the Atlantic.   
   Consider some of the startling headlines over the past few months from the once-sleepy municipal bond industry. On November 10, Jefferson County, Alabama filed the largest municipal bankruptcy in US history. Home to Birmingham, Jefferson sank under the burden of $3.1 billion of corruption-ridden sewer-system debt that it could not repay. In October, Harrisburg, the state capital of Pennsylvania, also filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection, its finances scorched by a doomed incinerator project. In August, tiny Central Falls, Rhode Island filed for Chapter 9 under the weight of high pension costs. So was financial pundit Meredith Whitney prescient when she predicted a wave of municipal defaults on “60 Minutes” back in December 2010?   
   For Our FREE S&P 500 Weekly Update, visit www.thechartlab.com   
   After passively taking Sprint's abuse for weeks, Clearwire's CEO lashed  back today in an interview reported in the Wall Street Journal.  Clearwire needs a new contract with Sprint to support the financing it needs to build out its 4G LTE networkas rapidly as it can in 2012. AT&T and Verizon are moving forward with their 4G networks and speed is of the essence if Sprint wishes to remain relevant in the next wave of upgrades. Armed with a new Sprint contract, Clearwire can also obtain vendor financing for some of that network rebuild. At recent analyst meetings, Clearwire has been afraid to be too bullish that it would successfully resolve its differences with its parent Sprint because of Sprint's recent behavior. That pertains even though Sprint's Chairman stepped into the breach after Dan Hesse, CEO made quite a public hash of the relationship between the two companies at its analyst meeting on October 7th. Hesse has also made public references to Sprint and the movie Moneyball which seem to have little common ground for comparison.   
   Many stocks with high scores from IBD are losing steam, others still blaze higher.   
   This market has been one of the hardest markets I have seen in my 25 years to stay in the game.  With 1 % to 2% moves on a daily basis, I can understand why many investors can not watch their portfolios.  Back on Oct 3rd we had a high conviction to get long at 1090 and scale out of the market until we reached 1250.  Since selling at the 1250 region, we have been telling members and readers to sell at the 1275 & 1288 region and wait for a pull back.  Last week we dipped our toe into the market at 1236 and sold at 1260.  At this juncture we are waiting for 1188 to 1204 to get long.  We are waiting to see what develops in Europebefore deciding on a longer term game plan.  In the mean time we are trading around our core holding which is cash.    Below are stocks that we having been writing about and following.  For our FREE S&P 500 news letter visit www.thechartlab.com.  Below are some heavily trading names that should not be bought, avoid catching these falling knives.   
   'Ban the analysts!' This is what European Union commissioner Michel Barnier recently suggested. Barnier proposed banning credit agencies from rating the sovereign debt of countries undergoing bailouts. The commissioner was pressured into withdrawing his proposal for a ban, though he is still pushing for other reforms.   
   This market has been one of the hardest markets I have seen in my 25 years to stay in the game.  With 1 % to 2% moves on a daily basis, I can understand why many investors can not watch their portfolios.  Back on Oct 3rd we had a high conviction to get long at 1090 and scale out of the market until we reached 1250.  Since selling at the 1250 region, we have been telling members and readers to sell at the 1275 & 1288 region and wait for a pull back.  Last week we dipped our toe into the market at 1236 and sold at 1260.  At this juncture we are waiting for 1188 to 1204 to get long.  We are waiting to see what develops in Europe before deciding on a longer term game plan.  In the mean time we are trading around our core holding which is cash.    Below are stocks that we having been writing about and following.  For our FREE S&P 500 news letter visit www.thechartlab.com.  Below are some heavily trading names that should not be bought, avoid catching these falling knives.   
   Chinese policymakers have begun to selectively ease macroeconomic policy to support growth, according to Barclays’ analysts.  While full on easing won’t come until 2012, China will face a significant economic slowdown as the export sector feels the impact of a fragile global economy, and residential investment, which makes up 12% of GDP, falls drastically as the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) seeks to control a real estate bubble.   
   Author Harry Dent loathes just about all asset classes except dollars.   
   Debate whether the stock is a buy or a sell amidst turbulent times and new financial reform.   
   After Hours: DeVry and Juniper Networks beat Street; Yahoo's forecast disappoints.   
   Author Harry Dent loathes just about all asset classes except dollars.   
   Debate whether the stock is a buy or a sell amidst turbulent times and new financial reform.   
   After Hours: DeVry and Juniper Networks beat Street; Yahoo's forecast disappoints.   
   Brazilian regulators have banned Chevron fro drilling in the country after a spill at the Frade field, where the company was trying to tap into ultra deepwater pre-salt fields.   
   In the year's biggest leveraged buyout, a group led by KKR has agreed to acquire private energy group Samson for $7.2 billion validating the thesis that shale plays will become highly profitable.   
   In its latest earnings release, Deere's management noted strong growth will come from Asia and Canada in 2012, with European and Latin American sales expected to be flat.   
   The minutes for the early November FOMC meeting reveal a commanding Bernanke that has managed to get hawks and dove to follow him, despite many dissents, and suggesting QE3 is coming if the economy continues its path.   
   GDP growth in the third quarter was downwardly revised to 2%, showing weaker wage growth and a deeper fall in real disposable income. Falling growth, high unemployment, and gridlock in Washington means Bernanke will have to act.   
   Forbes gets a rare look inside China's telecom trailblazer.   
   Jack gives background on China's oil industry, as learned from Dan Yergin's new book, "The Quest."   
   For the U.S. and China to cooperate despite their policy differences, they're going to have to start thinking like the other.   
   China's economy is expected to slow over the next few years, but the government will do all that it can to ensure a "soft landing."   
   Forbes gets a rare look inside China's telecom trailblazer.   
   Gary Hamel of London School of Business on the evolution of management and why it matters.   
   Forbes' John Dobosz goes downtown to talk to the protesters at Occupy Wall Street.   
   The Journelle CEO gets intimate on inspiration and expansion   
   Five of our Forbes' best-performing newsletter editors provide their best single idea for today's challenging market.   
   The IRS is taking steps to better regulate the tax return preparation field, ostensibly to weed out what IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman has called "unscrupulous preparers."?? The IRS started with having return preparers register and obtain their own Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN).?? So far about 740,000 have been issued.?? The IRS says over 60 ...   
   When the holiday blues get to you, take a minute and think about the smallest beauty in your life.  It all looks a lot better when you keep it in perspective.   
   Be thankful for your many blessings and check out some big U.S tech stocks.   
   Ask Buffett: Are Intel and IBM tech stocks or dividend stocks?   
   When the IRS announced a new amnesty program?this time for businesses who misclassify workers as "independent contractors" I got excited.?? See IRS Unveils Big Relief Program For Worker Status.?? After all, millions of dollars and liability can be at stake, and the IRS program can be a darned good deal for some. But then I ...   
   The cash-rich tech stocks are trending higher as gold takes a break.   
   Investors need to fight the year-end pressure to get points on the scoreboard.   
   If you don't know what an FBAR is but you have a foreign bank account, you'd better read up.?? See Are You Getting Enough FBAR? FBARs (Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts) are now ubiquitous. You include foreign income on your tax return, but if you have $10,000 or more overseas, you must file ...   
   Investors are left rubbing their eyes as stocks decline on rough news out of Spain and France.   
   These retailers are valiantly staying one step ahead of their customers.   
   Scientists disagree on outlook, but there is hope to head off the devastation. Some researchers say we can?t prevent Alzheimer?s because we don?t know what causes it.?? But others disagree. Considering that by the time you reach 85 years of age, your odds of developing Alzheimer?s Disease are almost one in two, I?m for anything ...   
   It is very easy to forget that politicians are capable of not only thinking the unthinkable but also implementing the unconscionable; especially when it comes to saving their own hide. What is most likely to happen in the Euro crisis will be an attempt at creating the United States of Europe, using the threat or ...   
   Longtime observers of our federal tax system note sagely that there are recurrent pendulum swings.????For some years, the IRS will be encouraged to collect, collect, collect, and inevitably be admired for its toughness perhaps earning an accolade: ruthless.?? Then, after a few too many citizens have rugs pulled from under them, Congress and the Executive ...   
   You've probably read about IRS whistleblowers and trying to cash in on reporting suspected tax fraud. ??There's lots of this occurring now, although very few taxpayers end up getting money out of the process.?? See Patient Tax Tattletales Can Earn Big. You can start the ball rolling by reporting to the IRS on??Form 3949-A, Information ...   
   Many stocks with high scores from IBD are losing steam, others still blaze higher.   
   ? When you graduate from Yale Medical School, you can expect that making a good living ($$$) would be expected. ??But it was not enough for Joseph F.?Chip? Skowron who not only was an orthopedic surgeon, where the money was great, he went on to become a hedge fund manager, where the money was STUPID! ...   
   Analysts, covering both credit and equity securities, have long been under pressure to be positive.   
   A marital agreement specifies how a couple's property shall be divided upon their divorce or the death of one of them. The purpose of this article is not to displace a party's counsel in drafting or negotiating a martial agreement, but to help a party to determine whether a martial agreement approved by his or ...   
   Bank's disappointing earnings damage financial sector. Big Blue's advance lessens sting of tech tumble.   
   Street stumbles after bank's earnings drop, but Dow defies slide thanks to IBM.   
   Bank reports 53% drop in fourth-quarter profit, weighs on Street Wednesday morning.   
   Tech heavyweight crushes expectations after CEO announces medical leave.   
   Citigroup, the second major bank to report earnings for the last quarter of 2010, misses analyst expectations on top and bottom line.   
   Better than expected results lift market, but retail sales figures and Chinese inflation worries limit broader advance.   
   Inflation battle in fast-growing economy has implications for U.S. corporations.   
   Bulls take a breather after surprise increase in new unemployment filings.   
   Stocks open to the downside after new unemployment filings rise.   
   Financials help lead the way in New York after a successful bond auction from Portugal.   
   Manufacturing picks up while housing remains a concern, Federal Reserve reports.   
   Upbeat view on financials, calming of Euro debt fears help drive stocks Wednesday.   
   Successful bond auction by Portugal sets stage for stateside rally.   
   Alcoa profits, retail forecasts help market make strides Tuesday.   
   Aluminum producer narrowly tops estimates; luxury retailer ups guidance after strong holiday season.   
   Aluminum producer and home builder beat estimates, Tiffany and Sears raise guidance.   
   Aluminum producer beats bottom-line estimates. Dealmaking can't lift Euro debt cloud.   
   Billion-dollar takeovers at home can't stifle flareup of European worries.   
   Street dinged Friday, but still finishes first week of 2011 with comfortable gain.   
   Payrolls climb, but less than expected, while unemployment surprisingly dips to 9.4%.   
   Labor market moving slowly in right direction, but don't read too much into sharp drop in jobless rate.   
   Nonfarm payrolls add just 103,000, far below rising expectations.   
   Slight uptick in jobless claims taken in stride, but retail sales can't live up to lofty expectations.   
   The IRS is taking steps to better regulate the tax return preparation field, ostensibly to weed out what IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman has called “unscrupulous preparers.”  The IRS started with having return preparers register and obtain their own Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN).  So far about 740,000 have been issued.  The IRS says over 60 percent of PTIN holders are not attorneys, CPAs, or enrolled agents.   
   Be thankful for your many blessings and check out some big U.S tech stocks.   
   When the IRS announced a new amnesty program---this time for businesses who misclassify workers as “independent contractors” I got excited.  See IRS Unveils Big Relief Program For Worker Status.  After all, millions of dollars and liability can be at stake, and the IRS program can be a darned good deal for some.   
   The cash-rich tech stocks are trending higher as gold takes a break.   
   The amounts of customer funds missing from MF Global have multiplied from $633 million to $1.2 billion yesterday-- and now $1.7 billion today, according to  Vincent (Trace) Schmeltz III , the attorney  for the 80 member Commodity Customers Coalition. Schmeltz is a member of the Barnes & Thornburg law firm in Chicago   
   Investors are left rubbing their eyes as stocks decline on rough news out of Spain and France.   
   Options activity is brisk on Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) today, as traders position themselves ahead of tonight's fourth-quarter earnings report.   Wall Street is expecting the Dow Jones Industrial Average component to post lower profit, with earnings falling 15% to $1.13 per share from $1.33 per share in the same quarter last year.  Revenue is expected to decline roughly 3.7% to $32.05 billion from $33.3 billion last year.   
   Tomorrow will be a big day for the Claymore/MAC Global Solar Index (TAN), as several major players in the solar sector are set to release their quarterly earnings reports before the open.  Those on the docket include Trina Solar Limited (TSL), Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ), JA Solar Holdings Co. Ltd. (JASO), LDK Solar Co. Ltd. (LDK), and Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. (STP).   
   Longtime observers of our federal tax system note sagely that there are recurrent pendulum swings.  For some years, the IRS will be encouraged to collect, collect, collect, and inevitably be admired for its toughness perhaps earning an accolade: ruthless.  Then, after a few too many citizens have rugs pulled from under them, Congress and the Executive Branch will rebuke the IRS.  Telling the IRS how mean and inappropriate it is, Congress will cut back on the agency's authority and make it play nice.    
   Though many traders and investors are fixated on picking a market bottom or a market top, understanding and identifying a specific type of chart pattern can provide many excellent profit opportunities.   
   You’ve probably read about IRS whistleblowers and trying to cash in on reporting suspected tax fraud.  There’s lots of this occurring now, although very few taxpayers end up getting money out of the process.  See Patient Tax Tattletales Can Earn Big.   
   Many stocks with high scores from IBD are losing steam, others still blaze higher.   
   It looks like gold may be building a base for the next rally, although those who don’t already own the metal may be best served by waiting a little longer.   
   Convicted hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam was ordered to pay a whopping $92.8 million penalty after his insider trading case.  Judge Jed S. Rakoff came up with the figure by imposing the maximum penalty of three times Mr. Rajaratnam’s illegal gains at Galleon Group.  But however you get to the number, it’s the largest ever assessed against a person in an SEC insider trading case.   
   U.S. equities have been looking weak as Super Committee and Europe feed political risk.   
   Tuesday’s sharp jump in retail sales caught some by surprise, and suggested that consumer spending is healthier than many think. This was the fifth consecutive monthly increase. Electronics and building supplies led the way.   
   If you’re a fan of FATCA—the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act that adds even more foreign account disclosure rules—you and the IRS may be alone.  Most hate it, including banks and other institutions.  See Oh Canada!  Hating FBARs And FATCA.  But if it isn’t repealed—and repeal seems unlikely—you’ll need to start slogging through compliance.   
   Shares of NetApp Inc. (NTAP) have plunged more than 8% pre-market activity, as traders react to the company's mixed second-quarter earnings report.  Earnings for the period came in higher than anticipated with NetApp posting an ex-items profit of $235.5 million, or 63 cents per share.  Wall Street was expecting earnings of 60 cents per share.   
   Refiners hit the skids but drillers and oil services are the way to go.   
   This story appears in the Dec. 5 Investment Guide issue of Forbes Magazine. Click here for the full Investment Guide 2012 special report.   
   Resisting the temptation to jump aboard these cyclical temptations is tough.   
   The Home Depot Inc. (HD) is stealing headlines this morning, after the company posted a trifecta of improvements during the third-quarter.  Specifically, the Dow Jones Industrial Average component saw net income rise 12% to $934 million, or 60 cents per share, from $834 million, or 51 cents per share, last year.  Additionally, revenue rose 4.4% 50 $17.33 billion, while same-store sales added 4.2% during the quarter.   
   Is your IRS data is at risk? There's lots of talk about identity theft these days, including Congressional testimony noted below.  Some of the problems relate to how the IRS reacts if your data is compromised and how seamlessly they move to protect you.   
    by  Rebecca Wilder      EA BoP Guide: CA and KA – EA too Dependent on Portfolio Inflows?      This is part two of my multi-post commentary on the Euro area Balance of Payments (BoP).   Yesterday, in part one , I compared the EA current account balance to its country-level cross section. Today’s post will be more instructive in nature, as I dig into the components of the EA current account (CA) and capital account (KA) balances.    My general conclusion is that the EA is highly dependent on foreign demand for EA assets in the identity of its international accounts.    As a note: remember the standard international finance identity: CA + KA + errors and omissions = 0, where CA + KA is generally referred to as the Balance of Payments. An international  guide to the BoP can be found at the IMF website  . Generally, the EA BoP statistics adhere to the IMF definitions.     The Current Account     The chart below illustrates the 3-month accumulated current account balance as the sum of its components: the goods balance (exports minus imports of goods), the service balance (exports minus imports of services), net foreign income, and unilateral transfers. The goods, services, and income balance is € 16.2 for the three months ending in September, which is more than offset by the unilateral transfer balance, -€ 28.1 billion.    The transfer debits are generally to and from other EU institutions and other non-EU and non G7 countries (see  section 7.3, table 9 ), which reflects subsidies from the EA to EU budgets, remittance payments, and aid to developing economies. Given the stability in these outflows, this should be no cause for concern at this time. Of note, the goods balance shrunk spanning 2003 to current, while the service balance improved. In Q3 2011, the goods balance was just €1 billion, while the services balance was €15.    The trade and income balances balances generally fund the transfer outflows. However, recently the transfer balance has picked up (-€28.1 bn in the three months ending in September, which is up from -€19 or -€20 bn in the same month of 2004 and 2005). Given the dropoff in the trade and income balance, something is funding these unilateral outflows: the capital account.                The Capital Account     The chart below illustrates the 3-month accumulated capital account balance as a sum of its components: net portfolio flows (Port Inv – Bal, generally financial assets), foreign direct investment (FDI, or stickier capital flows), financial derivatives, ‘other investments’, and official reserves (ECB asset accumulation).    Since the crisis started, there’s been an stark inflow of foreign money (positive green bars) into the Euro area. It’s probably worth looking at this alongside the US TIC data to gauge interest in USD denominated assets for a proxy of global portfolio diversification – another post – I digress. The EA foreign direct investment is, and has generally been, negative. Foreign direct investment is long-term investment in other countries, including the retention of earnings for investment, equity investment, or long and short term loans. Most of the FDI is leaving the EA for the UK, ‘other EU countries (those not UK, Sweden, or Denmark, and “other countries” (likely EM countries in Asia and Latin America). You can see this information in  section 7.3, Table 9 . Official reserve asset accumulation is generally very small – one can barely see it in this illustration -  and picks up in times of stress (like in 2008).    One interesting aspect of this data has been the persistently negative flows in ‘other investments’.  Section 7.3, Tables 5-6  indicate this is driven by outflows in the banking sector (MFI’s). I’ll attend to this in another post; but there’s been a steady reduction to EA MFI’s via short-term loans.           The important feature of recent developments in the capital account is the sharp dropoff of the portfolio balance in September, just €31.5 bn over the last three months from €104.5 bn in the three months through August. This could be a one-off event; but the reduced foreign demand for EA assets could be problematic if a trend forms.    I would say that the EA BoP is not the most stable of all international flows. It’s now heavily dependent on portfolio flows – the green bars in the chart above - given the persistently negative foreign direct investment flows. Better put: the EA current account deficit is now funding through international asset flows into debt, equity, and lending markets. Given the deterioration of the sovereign debt crisis, I wouldn’t be surprised if these flows slowed further in coming months/quarters without a broad policy response from within Europe. Given the persistence of the transfer outflows, waning foreign demand for EA assets would pressure the currency downward if trade remains sluggish.    originally published at  The Wilder View...Economonitors       
   by  Mike Kime l    Peter Diamond, Emmanuel Saez, Paul Krugman and Me!!  Looking at Optimal Tax Rates   Via  Paul Krugman , I learned of  this paper  by Peter Diamond and Emmanuel Saez.  Diamond, of course, is a Nobel Laureate.  I will be shocked if Saez isn't one too in ten or fifteen years.  Long story made very short, Diamond and Saez jump through a lot of hoops and find that the optimal top marginal income tax rate (all in, that is, including federal, state and local), which they define as maximizing social welfare, is about 73%.    Now, long time readers may recall I've been doing this sort of analysis for years, though of course I've been looking at tax rates that maximize real GDP growth.  Simply put, you cannot maximize long run social welfare if you aren't maximizing economic growth.      My approach is much simpler than that followed by Diamond and Saez.  I like to think its much more intuitive and easier to explain.  I note that US data shows a simple quadratic relationship between real GDP growth from one year to the next and tax rates:  growth in real GDP, t to t+1 = f(top marginal tax rate, top marginal tax rate squared, other variables)  One recent post on the topic is  here .   ( Unlike the Laffer curve , the coefficients come out statistically significant and with the right signs.)    I mention all this to note that no matter what I throw into the equation, I find that the top marginal tax rate that maximizes economic growth is somewhere around 65%.  Of course, I've focused only on federal tax rates... add in state and local it comes pretty close to what Diamond and Saez have found.  As I noted above, my approach is somewhat simpler, and easier to follow than that of Diamond and Saez.  Part of the reason is that they come at it from a point of view of elasticities.  But with all due respect to my betters (Diamond and Saez, and Krugman as well considering the explanation in his post) I think this is the wrong way to consider the problem.  It requires all sorts of assumptions and generalizations about people's behavior, some of which are both false and create resistance from folks on the right.    For example, there is a notion that raising tax rates will reduce people's willingness to work... which is only true above certain thresholds.  (That threshold, of course, varies per individual.)  As anyone who has ever had a business will tell you (when they're not busy demanding tax reductions), you don't pay taxes on income from the business if you turn around and reinvest that income.  (An accountant would talk to you about decreasing your tax liability by increasing expenses which amounts to the same thing.)  You only pay taxes on that income you take that income out, presumably for consumption purposes.  So to simplify, consider an example....  is a successful businessperson more likely to take money out of the business if his/her tax rate is 70% or if its 25%?  In general, a person is more likely to take that money at 25%, as there's less of a penalty.  At 70% tax rates, there is more of an incentive to reinvest in the business, creating more growth in the business in subsequent years, and more economic growth thereafter.  70% tax rates are more likely to generate faster economic growth than 25% tax rates precisely because people are self-interested and the higher tax rates induce people to continue investing in things they do well.  (Of course, tax rates can get too high.  At 95%, people will reinvest almost every dime... even if they have exhausted every good investment opportunity they have.  Thus, to avoid taxes they'll be making lousy investments which in turn slow economic growth.)    Still, its gratifying to see others who are more, er, credentialed doing similar work.  If I might end on a digression, though, I can think of a number of examples of work being done on blogs by people who are essentially hobbyists which is somewhat ahead of the academic literature.  However, to a large extent, if something wasn't published in the academic literature, for all practical purposes it didn't happen.  Which is a shame, because most of us who aren't academics don't have time or the resources required for such publication (such as access to econlit).  That inevitably slows economic development three ways:  1.  the lack of recognition discourages hobbyists who have the potential and otherwise would have the willingness to improve on the existing literature 2.  should such hobbyists persist and do the research, that research will not be widely disseminated even if it is an improvement over the academic literature 3.  it maintains an insular attitude among those who are not hobbyists.  As smart as Diamond, Saez, and Krugman all are, none of them are thinking the way someone running a business thinks of they'd have realized immediately how people who are running a business react to higher and lower tax rates.  I have read a lot of academic papers on taxation and have yet to stumble on one that gets it right.   ---  Thanks to Steve Roth of  Asymptosis  and Jazzbumpa of  Retirement Blues  for notifying me of Krugman's post.    And since I always offer...  if anyone wants any spreadsheets showing the quadratic relationship between tax rates and economic growth or anything else I've done, drop me a line.  I'm at my first name (mike) then a period then my last name (kimel - with one m only!!!) at gmail.com.      
   by   Mike Kimel    In this post, I will show that during the New Deal era, changes in the real economic growth rate can be explained almost entirely by the earlier changes in federal government's non-defense spending. There are going to be a lot of words at first - but if you're the impatient type, feel free to jump ahead to the graphs. There are three of them.  The story I'm going to tell is a very Keynesian story. In broad strokes, when the Great Depression began in 1929, aggregate demand dropped a lot. People stopped buying things leading companies to reduce production and stop hiring, which in turn reduced how much people could buy and so on and so forth in a vicious cycle. Keynes' approach, and one that FDR bought into, was that somebody had to step in and start buying stuff, and if nobody else would do it, the government would.     So an increase in this federal government spending would lead to an increase in economic growth. Even a relatively small boost in government spending, in theory, could have a big consequences through the multiplier effect - the government hires some construction companies to build a road, those companies in turn purchase material from third parties and hire people, and in the end, if the government spent X, that could lead to an effect on the economy exceeding X.   This increased spending by the Federal government typically came in the form of roads and dams, the CCC and the WPA and the Tennessee Valley Authority, in the Bureau of Economic Analysis' National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) tables it falls under the category of nondefense federal spending.  Now, in a time and place like the US in the early 1930s, it could take a while for such nondefense spending by the federal government to work its way through the economy. Commerce moved more slowly back in the day. It was more difficult to spend money at the time than it is now, particularly if you were employed on building a road or a dam out in the boondocks. You might be able to spend some of your earnings at a company store, but presumably the bulk of what you made wouldn't get spent until you get somewhere close to civilization again.   So let's make a simple assumption - let's say that according to this Keynesian theory we're looking at, growth in any given year a function of nondefense spending in that year and the year before. Let's keep it very simple and say the effect of nondefense spending in the current year is exactly twice the effect of nondefense spending in the previous year. Thus, restated,   (1) change in economic growth, t =  f[(2/3)*change in nondefense spending t,  (1/3)*change in nondefense spending t-1]  For the change in economic growth, we can simply use Growth Rate of Real GDP at time t less Growth Rate of Real GDP at time t-1. The growth rate of real GDP is provided by the BEA in an easy to use spreadsheet  here .  Now, it would seem to make sense that nondefense spending could simply be adjusted for inflation as well. But it isn't that simple. Our little Keynesian story assumes a multiplier, but we're not going to estimate that multiplier or this is going to get too complicated very quickly, particularly given the large swing from deflation to inflation that occurred in the period. What we can say is that from the point of view of companies that have gotten a federal contract, or the point of view of people hired to work on that contract who saved what they didn't spend in their workboots, or storekeepers serving those people, they would have spent more of their discretionary income if they felt richer and would have spent less if they felt poorer.   And an extra 100 million in nondefense spending (i.e., contracts coming down the pike) will seem like more money if its a larger percentage of the most recently observed GDP than if its a smaller percentage of the most recently observed GDP. Put another way, context for nondefense spending in a period of rapid swings in deflation and inflation can be provided by comparing it to last year's GDP.   So let's rewrite equation (1) as follows:  (2) Growth in Real GDP t - Growth in Real GDP t-1 f[(2/3)*change in {nondefense spending t / GDP t-1},  (1/3)*change in {nondefense spending t-1 / GDP t-2}]  Put another way... this simple story assumes that changes in the Growth Rate in Real GDP (i.e., the degree to which the growth rate accelerated or decelerated) can be explained by the rate at which nondefense spending as a perceived share of the economy accelerated or decelerated. Thus, when the government increased nondefense spending (as a percent of how big the people viewed the economy) quickly, that translated a rapid increase in real GDP growth rates. Conversely, when the government slowed down or shrunk nondefense spending, real GDP growth rates slowed down or even went negative.   Note that GDP and nondefense spending figures are "midyear" figures. Note also that at the time, the fiscal year ran from July to June... so the amount of nondefense spending that showed up in any given calendar year would have been almost completely determined through the budget process a year earlier.   As an example... nondefense spending figures for 1935 were made up of nondefense spending through the first half of the year, which in turn were determined by the budget which had been drawn up in the first half of 1934. In other words, equation (2) explains changes in real GDP growth rates based on spending determined one and two years earlier. If there is any causality, it isn't that growth rates in real GDP are moving the budget.  Since there stories are cheap, the question of relevance is this: how well does equation (2) fit the data? Well, I'll start with a couple graphs. And then I'll ramp things up a notch (below the fold).   Figure 1 below shows the right hand side of equation (2) on the left axis, and the left hand side of equation (2) on the right axis. (Sorry for reversing axes, but since the right hand side of the equation (2) leads it made sense to put it on the primary axis.)          Notice that the changes in nondefense spending growth and the changes in the rate of real GDP growth correlate very strongly, despite the fact that the former is essentially determined a year and two years in advance of the latter.   Here's the same information with a scatterplot:         So far, it would seem that either the government's changes to nondefense spending growth were a big determinant of real economic growth, or there's one heck of a coincidence, particularly since I didn't exactly "fit" the nondefense function.  But as I noted earlier in this post, after the first two graphs, I would step things up a notch. That means I'm going to show that the fit is even tighter than it looks based on the two graphs above. And I'm going to do so with a comment and a third graph.   Here's the comment: 1933 figures do not provide information about how the New Deal programs worked. After all, the figures are midyear - so the real GDP growth would be growth from midyear 1932 to midyear 1933. But FDR didn't become President until March of 1933.   So... here's Figure 2 redrawn, to include only data from 1934 to 1938.         While I'm a firm believer in the importance of monetary policy, for a number of reasons I don't believe it made much of a difference in the New Deal era. As Figure 3 shows, changes in nondefense spending - hiring people to build roads, dams, and the like, explain subsequent changes in real GDP growth rates exceptionally well from 1934 to 1938. This simple model explains more than 90% of the change in real GDP growth rates over that period.   Of course, after 1938, the relationship breaks down... but by then the economy was on the mend (despite the big downturn in 1938). More importantly (I believe - haven't checked this yet!), defense spending began to become increasingly important. People who might have been employed building roads in 1935 might have found employment refurbishing ships going to the Great Britain in 1939.   ---  As always, if you want my spreadsheet, drop me a line. I'm at my first name (mike) period my last name (kimel - note only one "m") at gmail.com.      
   The comments section (js kit) is not registering correctly at the comment label but  are actually being left...please click on comments to take you to the whole post page and leave them.  If you have noticed missing comments let me know via angrybearblog at gmail.  The error appears to be in the permalink code and needs repair.  On it but am learning a new set of function and lines.  Dan      
   The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, without whose FRED database and Excel Add-in Economics Bloggers (and Matt Yglesias) would be Even More Boring, has been running a series of Discussions explaining why the Fed is incompetent&mdash;er, Why They Don't Follow Their Dual Mandate&mdash;er, well, something about how They're Doing The Best They Can.*  The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis will offer a live webcast of the finale of its fall evening discussion series for the general public, "Dialogue with the Fed: Beyond Today’s Financial Headlines," on Monday, Nov. 21, 2011.  The dialogue will be streamed live from the St. Louis Fed's Gateway Conference Center beginning at 7 p.m. CT/8 p.m. ET. It can be viewed at  www.stlouisfed.org/live . No registration is necessary.     Christopher Waller, the St. Louis Fed’s senior vice president and director of research, will discuss "Understanding the Unemployment Picture." After his presentation, Waller, along with St. Louis Fed economists David Andolfatto and Natalia Kolesnikova, will take questions from the on-site audience at the Bank.  If you cannot catch the live webcast, it will be archived and available on the St. Louis Fed web site within a few days of the event, along with videos of the first two dialogues.   View  Lessons Learned from the Financial Crisis  with Julie Stackhouse, senior vice president, Banking Supervision & Regulation Held Sept. 12, 2011  View  Bringing the Federal Deficit Under Control  with William Emmons, assistant vice president and economist Held Oct. 18, 2011   Attend, enjoy, ask them about the Beige Book.   David Andolfatto  tries to be One of the Good Guys (well, for a Simon Fraser guy**, at least). Give him some love, attention, and Questions He Will Love to Answer.   *Whether you find this idea even more disappointing than the others is left as an exercise, unless you're looking for work, in which case:           **Think A Canadian Koch Brothers, but where the work is done in the Selection Bias.       
   by  Rebecca Wilder    EA Balance of Payments: the Current Account   I’ve been doing quite a bit of research on the balance of payments flows within the Euro Area (EA). Given the complexity of the balance of payments, there are too many angles to tackle in one post. Therefore, spanning the next week I will dedicate my commentary to the EA balance of payments. In this post, we start with square one: the current account.           The Euro area (EA) current account     Often times I hear comparison of the EA sovereign debt crisis to past emerging market balance of payments crises. This is not correct, since the EA runs only mild current account deficits, -0.9% of total EA GDP as of Q2 2011 (Q3 data reported in December). There’s no need for a sharp revaluation of the euro to drive the balance of payments to its identity – remember, the current account (CA) + capital account (KA) + official reserves + errors/ommissions = 0.                   The standard emerging market-style balance of payments crisis goes something like this: large current account deficits must be financed by foreign inflows of capital (financial account surpluses), so that the currency comes under pressure when foreigners lose confidence in said emerging market economy. As foreign capital flows start to reverse, the currency comes under pressure to balance the financial and current accounts. Under currency depreciation, relative costs rise (via imported goods), so the central bank ‘defends’ the level of the currency through FX intervention (they sell down FX reserves and buy the domestic currency). With the central bank’s stock of FX reserves depleting quickly, speculators can sell the domestic currency for much longer than the national central bank can buy up those assets. Eventually, the whole thing comes crashing down. The currency depreciates (quite materially in some cases) and brings the current account into balance.           The EA initial condition for a balance of payments crisis is just not there: the current account is, well, rather ‘balanced’.  Within the EA, country-level current accounts are well out of balance. This is the central theme associated with the EA sovereign debt crisis: debtor countries are reliant on foreign inflows of capital from the credit countries to support current spending.         The chart above illustrates the 4-quarter moving average current account deficit (red)/surplus (green) as a % of national GDP ending in Q2 2011.    In the context of the standard balance of payments crisis, Greece and Portugal would/should have seen precipitous nominal FX depreciation by now. In contrast, the Netherlands or Germany would have seen significant appreciation. However, the single currency union prevents nominal depreciation, so the focus has been on  real  depreciation. The debtor countries are forced into a policy of internal devaluation (fiscal austerity, they call it) to shift relative prices and real exchange rates. This could work if global growth was going gangbusters, but it’s not.    These imbalances are no longer sustainable.    I’ll leave you with a link as to the direction we’ll be headed here on The Wilder View. Last month Thomas Mayer released a report titled  Euroland’s hidden balance-of-payments crisis , which describes imbalances building in the EA financial flows. Next post we’ll look into the balance of payments flows within the EA.         originally published at  The Wilder View...Economonitors        
    by Beverly Mann     Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s Strange Political Prediction—And Other Recent ACA-Litigation Events     Well, as you all probably know by now, there have been two major developments in the courts within the last two weeks on the litigation challenging the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the ACA, a.k.a., “Obamacare). On November 8, a three-judge panel of the federal appeals court for Washington, D.C. issued its ruling in a case challenging the constitutionality of the so-called individual mandate requiring everyone who can afford healthcare insurance to purchase it, upon penalty of payment of a regulatory fee. That, of course, is the issue that has gotten almost all of the news media attention, thanks to loud Tea Party/Republican-pol/rightwing-talk-show-personalities cries that the mandate unconstitutionally violates individual liberty and therefore is beyond Congress’s authority under the Constitution’s Commerce Clause.       The Commerce Clause gives Congress the power to regulate interstate commerce and, under Supreme Court precedent, pretty much anything that affects interstate commerce. It is the “enumerated power” under which the ACA was enacted. As opposed to, say, the taxing “enumerated” power.     In several earlier AB posts , including one about the oral argument in late September in the appeal that was decided by last week’s ruling, I said that the right-wing’s conflation of the limits of Congress’s authority under the Commerce Clause and the separate issue of the Constitution’s various limitations on government power to infringe upon individual liberty, including in the Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause limiting the federal government’s powers to infringe upon individuals’ rights, is a sophism, as a matter of law and as a matter of logic. I also said that the Due Process argument is fatuous; the federal government clearly has the authority under the  taxing  power to compel the purchase of medical insurance or retirement savings, and does so for Medicare and Social Security, and a mandate under the Commerce power infringes no more on individual liberty than a mandate under the taxing power.    I made these points originally in  an AB post in late June , a few days before Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Jeffrey Sutton, a highly-regarded conservative Reagan appointee prominent Federalist Society member who early in his career served for a year as a law clerk to Justice Scalia, eloquently deconstructed that conflation in his 2-1 majority opinion upholding the constitutionality of individual mandate. I reiterated the points in an AB post  about  the Sutton opinion ( which I sillily titled “Judge Sutton Channels … Me??” ). And I summarized them in  a post in early October  in which I discussed the oral argument in the appeal that was decided on November 8.  The Sixth Circuit opinion was the first appellate ruling on an ACA case. The dissenter in that opinion is not an appellate judge but instead a trial-level judge sitting on that appellate panel “by designation ” of that court’s chief judge via a statute that allows this, and whose dissenting opinion was breathtakingly lightweight.     In August, an Eleventh Circuit panel consisting of a Clinton appointee to the Court of Appeals who had been appointed as a trial-level judge by Reagan, another Clinton appointee, and a George H. W. Bush appointee, issued a 2-1 opinion ruling the individual-mandate provision unconstitutional but upholding the remainder of the ACA, saying that the remainder was “severable” from the individual-mandate provision—that is, that the remainder of the Act could stand on its own and that therefore the loss of the mandate provision did not dissolve the remainder of the statute. The opinion was written by the Reagan appointee, Joel Dubina and joined by Clinton appointee Frank Hull. Neither judge is considered a star legal analyst, and the opinion didn’t disappoint. It was a rote adoption of the the-individual-mandate-unconstitutionally-infringes-on-liberty-because-it-penalizes-inaction-and-therefore-Congress-exceded-its-Commerce-Clause-authority. The opinion doesn’t explain how a supposed unconstitutional infringement of liberty amounts to a  per se  exceeding of Congress’s  Commerce  power, the opinion doesn’t explain. Alchemy? The dissent by Judge Stanley Marcus is scathing. (More about this case below.)  The panel in the Washington, D.C. case, the one decided on November 8, like the panel in the Sixth Circuit case, was comprised of two conservative Republican appointees and a Democratic appointee. Both Republican appointees, Lawrence Silberman and Brett Kavanaugh, the latter a former law clerk for Judge Kennedy, are high-profile stalwart conservatives and both are intellectual leaders of the “movement” right, albeit from slightly different conservative-legal-movement eras. Silberman is a Reagan appointee, Kavanaugh a George W. Bush appointee. In any event, they are not just rightwing but also considered intelligent, if not necessarily by me.  In  my post last month about the oral argument  in that case, I wrote:   Sutton’s analysis exposes the constitutional challenges to the individual mandate for what they are: a series of ideological clichés masquerading as legal argument.  As I wrote in AB shortly after the Sutton opinion was released, his analysis is so fine, so precise, that ultimately the Supreme Court’s opinion will echo it.  So I was not among those who were surprised that the administration is pushing for a Supreme Court ruling on the constitutionality or the statute before the 2012 election.  But all the judges thus far who have voted to invalidate the individual-mandate provision as unconstitutional are, in my opinion, intellectual lightweights, and so I’d wondered whether the Sutton analysis itself could be persuasively deconstructed by a judge or justice who is not.     The answer appears to be no.  Last week, a panel of yet federal appellate court, this one the one for Washington, D.C., heard arguments in yet another case challenging the constitutionality of the mandate as beyond Congress’s Commerce-regulation authority because it infringes upon the liberty of individuals to remain self-insured, it requires the purchase of a “product” from a private party, and, well, um, the scope of the statute is really sweeping.  I mean, what’s next, asked one of the two stalwart rightwing-intellectual-heavyweight members of the panel?  Congress mandating the purchase of GM cars by the wealthy in order to prevent the collapse of that company during the next economic downturn, upon pain of payment of a penalty for failure to do so?  (I hope so. Then, when David Koch has a heart attack in his Maserati and the ambulance attendants verify through the Secretary of State’s offices in his various home states that there is no GM car registered in his name, the attendants dump his gasping-for-breath body in the road, where he’s run over by a Cadillac SUV   I followed those paragraphs with this one:   A sigh of relief was in order—although I had to wait until I stopped smiling like a Cheshire cat.  That judge, Brett Kavanaugh (a former law clerk to Justice Kennedy, circa 1993), reportedly commented earlier to the plaintiffs’ lawyer that maybe the courts shouldn’t interfere with what could be the beginning of the mass privatization of the social safety net.  More likely, I think, it will prompt, finally, a single-payer healthcare-insurance system—Medicare for all—in order to cut out the spiraling costs of a private, multi-carrier, for-profit system whose premiums reflect, in part the investment losses of those private companies.  But don’t tell Judge Kavanaugh until after that appeal is over.   Um, oops. Actually, it was Silberman, not Kavanaugh, who suggested that if the individual mandate in the ACA is constitutional, then a mandate requiring the purchase of a GM car might be, too. It  was , however, Kavanaugh who predicted, mouth watering, that if the ACA’s mandate is upheld, it might usher in a mass privatization of the social safety net.    When the panel decided the case, it was Silberman who wrote the opinion—for himself and the Democratic appointee, liberal Clinton appointee Harry Edwards, upholding the individual mandate and echoing the basics of Judge Sutton’s opinion: that the Commerce Clause gives Congress the authority to regulate that which affects an interstate market, as the healthcare market clearly is; that the decision to not purchase healthcare insurance is not inactivity but instead clearly market activity because (unlike the proverbial decisions whether to purchase broccoli, or a GM vehicle) virtually everyone will need healthcare at some point, and will receive it whether or not the person is insured or can afford to pay the medical bills out-of-pocket; that the infringement-of-individual-liberty objection is not a Commerce Clause issue but instead a Due Process issue; and that the individual-mandate provision does not unconstitutionally infringe upon individual liberty.    Silberman’s opinion adopts Sutton’s reasoning in all respects. Most interesting, I think—partly, I guess, because by now I feel like I have a proprietary interest in it—is his conclusion that:   Appellants’ view that an individual cannot be subject to Commerce Clause regulation absent voluntary, affirmative acts that enter him or her into, or affect, the interstate market expresses a concern for individual liberty that seems more redolent of Due Process Clause arguments. But it has no foundation in the Commerce Clause.   Kavanaugh dissented. But not on "liberty" grounds. And not even on Commerce Clause grounds. Instead, he said a court ruling now is premature, for two reasons., one (he said) compelled by statute, the other (he said) in deference to "the bedrock principle of judicial restraint that courts avoid prematurely or unnecessarily deciding constitutional questions."     "Unnecessarily" being the interesting part of this.     The statutory reason is his interpretation of a federal court-jurisdiction statute called the Anti-Injunction Act and of the legal nature of the mandate provision. The Anti-Injunction Act removes the “jurisdiction,” i.e., legal authority, of the courts to even consider the challenge to the individual-mandate provision and its penalty for failure to purchase insurance until after the effective date of that provision in 2014 and the penalty is assessed against someone who then sues for reimbursement, contesting the provision’s constitutionality. The issue depends on whether the penalty is a  tax , since the Anti-Injunction Act applies only to taxes. In August, a panel of the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled, 2-1, that the mandate is a tax and that the Act therefore removed the courts’ jurisdiction to consider the constitutionality of the mandate provision until 2015, when the first penalties would be assessed by the I.R.S. Kavanaugh bought the argument; Silberman and Edwards didn’t.     The “unnecessarily” reason has subparts, but the main ones are that Congress may repeal the ACA, or parts of it, before the individual-mandate provision becomes effective, and, more to the point (or at least more to  my  point), that Congress may instead simply change the wording of the mandate provision slightly so that the penalty is clearly a tax. Which, he says, clearly would be constitutional.    He doesn’t say that it would be clearly within Congress’s taxing power. He says, flatly, that it would be clearly constitutional. He says, in other words, that the infringement on liberty does not itself violate the Constitution—whether the mandate is an exercise of Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce or instead an exercise of Congress’s power to tax.    That Kavanaugh has an ideological ulterior motive which advertised at oral argument and reiterates with more elaboration in his dissenting opinion— his expectation that if the ACA’s mandate is upheld, it could herald an era of mass privatization of the social safety net, happily marrying tea party types and rightwing interests in having government create a market serving private business interests—does not matter. Nor does it matter that Kavanaugh is delusional—unless, of course, it really is likely that there is, say, a private-food-assistance lobby similar in number to the insurance-industry lobby that, like the insurance-industry lobby did in fighting single-payer healthcare insurance proposals (and even the so-called public option in a version of Obamacare) , will emerge like locusts to have Congress enact a law mandating that everyone who can afford to do so must purchase food stamps each year, redeemable when and if necessary. Or that the AARP will agitate for privatization of Social Security, maybe in order to prevent the government from funding massive otherwise-unfunded wars and massive tax cuts for the wealthy largely by tapping the ostensible Social Security trust fund.    No, what matters is that Kavanaugh said what he said, irrespective of his motive. Kavanaugh got it right. The individual-mandate provision does not violate the Constitution’s limitations on government infringement of individual liberty. And Sutton and Silberman, neither of whom appears to share Kavanaugh’s peculiar delusion and ulterior motive, but also neither of whom voted for Obama or any member of Congress who voted for his “care,” have enunciated so finely why this is so and why, also, the mandate provision is within Congress’s Commerce Clause authority, that a 5-4 Supreme Court ruling to the contrary would be a transparent act of ideology. It’s not, of course, that the majority doesn’t do this, regularly; they do. It’s that this time they would be eating not only Obama and Care, but also Kavanaugh, Sutton and Silberman.    The fat lady hasn’t sung yet on the constitutionality of the individual mandate, but I think it’s over nonetheless. When the Court decides that issue—and despite the out-of-right-field potential inherent in certain sort-of-breathtaking parts of the Court’s order last Monday agreeing to hear the Eleventh Circuit case—I think the Court  will  decide that issue, eventually, if not in that case.    For the specifics of that order, and a comprehensive discussion of the five parts to it and the possible implications of one of them, see Simon Lazarus and Dahlia Lithwick’s article in Slate, “The Medicaid Ambush: The Supreme Court's unexpected and astounding reasons for wanting to hear a challenge to Obamacare,”  here  .              If the Court rules the ACA unconstitutional because the majority thinks the ACA’s expansion-of-Medicaid provision violates the states’, um, constitutional right to the current federal statutory entitlement (Medicaid in its current form) in order to protect the popularity of the states’ legislators who would vote to forego Medicaid in order to avoid the requirements of Obamacare (see the Slate article), then of course the Court will never have to decide the constitutionality of the individual mandate. I don’t think it will buy the states’ hubristic claim; I think the Court simply wants to hear all challenges from all governments that are suing. This is a court with at least a few members who apparently think that any time a state or local government asks it to hear a case, it should hear the case. But it also is a court whose majority, in deciding cases, regularly privileges the states’ interests over the interests of the federal government and of individuals. Their ideology largely rejects the Fourteenth Amendment and the original Constitution’s Supremacy Clause. So, who knows?    As for what caused Silberman’s change of heart about whether the individual mandate unconstitutionally infringes upon the liberty of individuals to remain uninsured, I have two theories. One is that Kavanaugh read my AB post attributing to him Silberman’s oral argument comment equating the mandate with a theoretical mandate to purchase a GM car, and after explaining to Silberman the difference between the two and insisting that Silberman publicly clarify the distinction or make clear that he, not Kavanaugh, drew the analogy, lest a gasping-for-air David Koch be dumped by an ambulance attendant onto the street and run over by a Cadillac Escalade and that Kavanaugh be blamed, he persuaded Silberman to change his mind about the whole analogy. The other is that Silberman himself gave more thought to whether it would be such a bad thing after all for the government to mandate a GM car in every driveway. After all, that new Chevy Cruze is awfully cute and gets pretty good gas mileage.       
   by  run 75441   In response to  Newt Gingrich's  comments on failing schools, work, and rising bootstraps,   Peter Dorman at  Econospeak  replies in:   Education with a Twist—An Oliver Twist"       "why take it out on the janitors? If the school was failing it wasn’t their fault. According to Gingrich, it’s the teachers who can’t make the grade. So why not put the kids to work following lesson plans, going over last year’s standardized tests, etc.? There would be as much pride in this as in cleaning toilets."     Usually when we focus on schools, the focus is on the failing city school model, teachers, and then the students themselves. One commenter draws the following conclusion:      "I spent weekend pass time as an English conversation resource person at a high school in Taejon. I was able to have a first-hand look at how education was done in what was at that time a very poor country with big ambitions. Most villages at that time were without running water or electricity and people still wore the traditional clothing, both men and women. There was no doubt that we were in a foreign country.    Because there was not enough money to provide free public education to everyone, students had to pass examinations starting with what we would call middle school if they were to be allowed to continue. Same for high school and, of course, post-secondary education.        Those who could not pass the tests were not accepted. But some children of families with enough money were able to continue their education through private schools. The system was exactly opposite what I had seen in America where private schools were generally the place where many of the most accomplished students were sent."     and another:     "The idea seems to be to give the kids some kind of work other than school work; and to build up a work ethic, which could well be more valuable to them than academics if they are in such a dire situation. I know that a friend of mine who runs a small business says he finds it very hard to hire for low end jobs: too many of his new employees don't really "get" the whole work concept      I expect anybody who comments here is probably at least middle class. The work ethic is something our parents drilled into us by example and through discipline. That's unfortunately not true for a lot of the poor, and it is one reason they have so much trouble improving their lot."     Is it really the student's fault or have we just taken our own fifties, sixties, and seventies values and applied them to a dysfunctional economy and educational system believing there is still a ray of hope if one works hard enough they can still pull themselves up by their boot straps?    Maybe it is true that Korea has been able to lift the boat of equality for all of it students; but then too when all are at the same level of, efforts to lift the outcome are equally divided and not skewed toward the suburbs over the inner cities. Review the difference in tax revenues for Detroit as compared to Rochester Hills, Farmington Hills, etc. if you wish to see inequality. One way to fix the problem is for Detroit to annex the suburbs to provide a better tax base. It is no longer a society which provides an equal chance to all people and the chance for upward mobility we used to experience in the sixties, seventies and eighties is long gone. Tom Hertz does a nice study defining upward mobility in a short study: "Understanding Upward Mobility in America." The days when a good work ethic and a high school diploma being the ticket to the middle class have also disappeared. I am sure you would not solely blame the high unemployment percentage rates on those with just a high school education on a lack of work ethic? And what of college with the high costs of student loans to finance college which has certainly contributed to closing the door on many. I suspect the Korean Vet went to college on the GI Bill the same as I and when it paid for tuition. Loyola of Chicago used to be ~$300 a course in the Masters Program. I am sure it is more now. Dr. Elizabeth Warren reviews what has happened to the chances to enter the middle class; " The Coming Collapse of the Middle Class."   Why is it we are willing to finance prisons at an average $24,000 per prisoner and keep captive ~1% of the total adult population, heavily skewed towards minorities, with ~50% being nonviolent, and yet we quibble over financing public schools? Is that expenditure for prisoners reaping a better result? Maybe we should teach high school students to be prison guards as it is a growing business both private and public. Another good and not a terribly long read is Dr. James Gillian " Violence: Reflections on A National Epidemic. " A lack of chance in upward mobility with this generation and the previous ones will result in other economic consequences.  "Are there No Prisons??? Are there No Union Workhouses???       
   by  Mike Kimel    Bank of America, Kafka, and I - A Continuing Relationship   A year and a half ago I wrote a post about how Countrywide, by then a division of Bank of America, had  filed to foreclose on our home,  apparently on the basis that someone with a similar name to the previous owner of the home owed them money.  Needless to say, we were surprised given that a) we had no relationship with B of A, b) we had made a point to always pay more than was due on our mortgage each month, c) nobody with the name of the person they were trying to collect from had ever owned the home (I've seen the property records going back to when the house was built) and d) as surreal and the whole thing was, we had to hire an attorney to make the whole mess go away.  In part because of that experience, some time after that my wife and I closed out all of our B of A accounts.  Or so I thought.  In the process of closing out my account, our account balance by definition became zero.  This is important because when one's balance is below $2,500, one is charged a monthly service fee.  Apparently, we have been assessing monthly service fees since the point where we thought we closed our accounts.  It seems that now we are carrying a negative balance that happens to equal a multiple of the service fee on an account that I closed a while ago.      Now, the Supreme Court has stated that corporations are essentially similar to a person.  But imagine if a person did something like this.  Imagine what would happen to me, for instance, if I filed papers to foreclose on a branch of B of A using, as an excuse, the fact that someone that B of A had no relationship with owed me money.  And what would happen if I followed that up some time later by sending B of A a bill for services they not only had not requested, but had been most vehement that they didn't want.  In addition to being charged with fraud, I imagine at this point it would also be considered harassment.    In general, a human being behaving this way would face consequences.  Even a human being well-connected enough not to have to worry about being arrested by the cops or prosecuted by the DA still has to worry about whether the next time his intended victim would be waiting with a shotgun.  B of A, on the other hand, truly has no constraints on its behavior.  No matter how unprofitable its behavior, it has been deemed too big to fail.  And society, having made the decision to privilege some sociopaths, also implicitly made the decision that everyone else qualifies as prey.      
   op ed by  run75441   Think Progress offers a look at relevant parts of the 'jobs bill'. In the US, the winds of Washington Politics don't blow, they suck.    Gerrymandering the Jobs Bill :       " The piece of the jobs bill Republicans will pass would end a requirement that the government withhold three percent of the cost of projects contracted out to private companies, to assure tax compliance. It’s a rule that Congress adopted during the Bush administration to cut down on tax cheating by government contractors."         The proposals would incorporate a permanent repeal of the withholding which today saves $10 billion in lost taxes. To counter the revenue loss the Republicans have a solution (as paid for by Medicaid/SS recipients):          "all legislation other than permanent tax cuts for wealthy people must be paid for — typically with cuts to federal programs. So Republicans have selected a provision from Obama’s deficit reduction recommendations that would limit Medicaid eligibility for people who also receive Social Security benefits.        A concept called Modified Adjusted Gross Income is used to determine Medicaid eligibility. Currently, it only incorporates the taxable portion of Social Security income in that calculation. Under t a new proposal, it would factor in all Social Security benefits. That means some seniors who currently qualify for Medicaid would no longer be eligible. Doing this would save about $14.6 billion over 10 years — more than the cost of repealing the 3 percent withholding compliance measure."  GOP Lays Trap for Obama on Jobs Bill"           Finance the tax cheats and sacrifice Medicaid and SS recipients.     Watching Your Back???     In Order to open negotiations with the Repubs, the Dems on the Super Committee       "are offering to cut Medicare and Medicaid benefits as part of a roughly $3 trillion grand bargain, which would well exceed the $1.2 trillion minimum goal the committee is tasked with meeting.      The Democratic plan proposes cutting the deficit by $2.5 trillion to $3 trillion and calls for between $200 billion and $300 billion in new stimulus spending to boost an ailing U.S. economy. It would be paid for with lower interest payments from reducing deficits.      It also seeks around $400 billion in Medicare savings, with half coming in benefit cuts and the other half in cuts to healthcare providers. Details of that proposal were scant but tackling the popular Medicare program is always politically risky for politicians in Washington, especially Democrats.      The Democratic proposal also identifies $100 billion in cuts to the Medicaid healthcare program for the poor, according to a lobbyist in contact with the committee."    Dems Seek $3trillion in Savings           Fortunately, The Repubs would not accept a tax increase on the income rich even with throwing Grandmother under the bus to finance it . . .     The Party of "No"rquist     It appears that many of the signers of the pledge representing "No"rquist beliefs and the Repub party over the constituency which elected them have feet made of sand as the currents of public anger are over whelming the views proffered.      " ATR currently has signatures from 238 House representatives, 41 Senators, 13 governors, and all of the GOP presidential candidates except former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman."         Anti-Tax Crusader Grover Norquist’s Grip is Slipping       Who elected these turkeys??? Hmmm, that's right, we did and the views they are espousing? Even that ever lovable former Senator from that wilderness state west of the Hudson Wyoming is calling for a resistance to outside influence (ATR) which has no impact on getting elected again. And Senator Coburn challenged Norquist on Ethanol subsidies? Such bravado . . .         “Have we really reached a point where one person’s demand for ideological purity is paralyzing Congress to the point that even a discussion of tax reform is viewed as breaking a no-tax pledge? ” Senator Wolf asked.      And the man with the perpetual sun tan Boehner asked of Norquist's relevance.           "some random guy,       Grover told me that he saw himself as the Lenin of the conservative revolution and that Ralph Reed was his Trotsky and Jack Abramoff was his Stalin.”           As  Oliver Wight used to say "Cement heads!" Someone has sounded the "abandon ship"  alert as the Repub-titanic has struck the iceberg of public dissent. Maybe  Occupy America has struck a nerve? It doesn't take a weatherman . . . We will  make the same mistake again and re-elect these turkeys.       
   All You Need to Know about Newt    The Gingrich health center’s support for such a mandate was part of an “Insure All Americans” plan that appears to have disappeared from the center’s Web site Thursday.    See that there is nothing here  http://www.healthtransformation.net/cs/insure_all_americans  But it is still  here   Key quote    Require that anyone who earns more than $50,000 a year must purchase health insurance or post a bond.     I know that Gingrich is a psychopath, but he likes to pretend that he is smart and techno savvy.  It seems that no one who knows about  the wayback machine  is willing to work for him.  Nothing could be more pointless than a screen shot of a waybackmachine page, so here it is.      
   By  Mike Kimel    The Gold Index, April 1933 - February 1934, Courtesy of Scott Sumner   I've been having a bit of a back and forth with Scott Sumner of  The Money Illusion  over the degree to which monetary policy, in particular the devaluation of the dollar, affected the economy in 1933.  (My most recent post on the issue is  here .)  In private correspondence, Sumner provided me with the draft for three chapters of a manuscript he is working on.  I can safely say that whether or not I agree with his findings, Sumner has done his homework - the draft is meticulously researched and abounds with details corroborating his findings.  Of particular interest to me was a Table 8.2, which shows weekly figures for a number of series from April 15, 1933 to the first week of February, 1934.  Sumner has graciously agreed to let me post that table.  I don't want to freeride on his efforts to much, so I'm only reproducing the first few columns.       Figure 1  I believe the most interesting thing in the table is - what has been the cause of some discussion between the two of us - is the Gold Index.  From the footnote to the table in the manuscript:   The gold index is the Annualist Index of Commodity Prices measured in gold terms.     Sumner collected that data manually from old trade journals.  I haven't been able to find that data online.  What the data shows, to quote Sumner, is that "an ounce of gold could buy more internationally traded goods in 1934 than 1933.  That’s what the 815 to 650 is showing—falling prices in gold terms."     Here's a graph of the series:     Figure 2   Addendum  by Ken  : Here's the Gold Index data listed above with the Vertical Axis rescaled:      Figure 3      
    Think Progress  points us to a study by  Citizens for Tax Justice  on what industries receive tax subsidies by amount and percentage, with pages of how data was compiled at the end.           
    Clifford Clark's post at ataxingmatter*  is worth a more complete look.  This also brings to mind Steve Keen's work on private debt and the economy on his blog  Debt Watch   as well as Lane Kenworthy's exploration of poverty and severe poverty at  Consider the Evidence , and Angry Bear Robert Waldmann's recent posts  here  and  here .    Comments on Inequality, Leverage, and Crises--Kumhof &amp; Ranciere Nov 2010 IMF working paper   [guest post by Clifford D. Clark]    Michael Kumhof's and Romain Ranciere's November 2010 paper relates income inequality to national economic crises, particularly those experienced as the Great Depression and the Great Recession.  They conclude that increases in income inequality --comparing the top 5% of households to the bottom 95%--in the years leading up to the two crises exerted a determining influence on the economy.  ...  First, income inequality grew in similar ways in the years before the depression and the recent deep recession. ....  The authors find a link between the two phenomena:  income inequality increased at a greater rate than consumption expenditures in the years before the two crises. The public was spending at rates greater than increases in their income.  ...  Second, in the years before the recent downturn the growth in household debt  was due almost entirely to the bottom 95%. Real hourly wages of the top 10% of households increased by an accumulated 70% between 1967 and 2003, while the median households decreased by 5% and wages at the bottom 10% decreased by about 25%.  ...   That represents a clear switch:  whereas in 1983 the top wealth group was more indebted than the bottom 95%, by 2007 the reverse was true. By then the bottom 95% had debts equal to 140 % of income, nearly twice that of the top 5%. They conclude that almost all of the change in the debt to income ratio in aggregate was due to the bottom 95%.  ...  Third, an increase in debt requires and increased need for financial intermediation:  accordingly, the size of the financial sector between 1980 and 2007 increased considerably. Measured by the ratio of private credit of deposit banks and other financial institutions to GDP, that quantity increased from 90% in 1981 to 210% in 2007...        Their conclusion is succinctly stated.        “ The key mechanism, reflected in a rapid growth in the size of the financial sector, is the recycling of part of the additional income gained by high income households back to the rest of the population by way of loans, thereby allowing the latter to sustain consumption levels, at least for a while. But without the prospect of a recovery in the incomes of poor and middle income households over a reasonable time horizon, the inevitable result is that loans keep growing, and therefore so does leverage and the probability of a major crisis that, in the real world, typically also has severe implications for the real economy. ” Id. at 22.   * correction of source      
   by  Linda Beale    The Hill reports on "supercommitte e   Alexander Bolton reports that " With Supercommittee Deadlocked, leaders Reid and Boehner meet ", The Hill (Nov. 15, 2011).  Reid (Dem) and Boehner (GOP) met Tuesday, but aides told The Hill that "They're not about to dive in" to the negotiations.  But as the committee seems to be at an impasse close to the 11/23 deadline, the leaders must be discussing what is likely to be the next step.  The arrangements for the group (in case no bipartisan deal could be reached) called for across-the-board cuts that impose reasonable cuts on Defense but limited cuts for social safety net/earned benefit programs (medicare limited to 2% cuts to insurance companies and health care providers/Social Security and Medicaid exempt).    The GOP members, of course, are casting it as a Dem problem. For example, Hensarling (a very far right member of the group, from Texas) blamed the Dems for not accepting the Toomey proposal for a piddling $300 billion in new tax revenue.   With Supercommittee Deadlocked, leaders Reid and Boehner meet .     The across-the-board cuts would cut Defense by $500 billion.  Various GOP members of Congress have said they want to change the deal to avoid the cuts to the military.  Tea Party favorite and radical right-winger Jim DeMint has essentially admitted that he never intended to stick with the sequester deal, saying that the GOP has "until next election to fix this thing."  GOP stalwarts want the US to maintain its exorbitant spending as "the world's only military superpower" even while being willing to cut health care and pensions to the vulnerable and even while the country's infrastructure--essential for business--crumbles in ruins.  McCain and Graham urged the Senate to reject the sequester of military funds, fearful it would "set off a swift decline of the United States as the world's leading military power."  Dems gain upper hand in deficit talks , The Hill (Nov. 16, 2011).     This attitude seems to believe that defense spending, no matter what the cost to the country, is okay, while spending on poor people is a waste and raising taxes on the rich is an impossibility.  Apparently GOP McKeon considered that possibility, but then later backtracked.  Certainly, Grover Norquist has been making sure the pressure is on from the corporate masters of our pseudo-democracy--the Hill notes Norquist's statement Monday that both Senate and House GOP leaders had "assured him they would not raise taxes to reduce the deficit."  Id.    So we have elected representatives in Congress who willfully ignore the will of the majority of people in favor of higher taxes and higher taxes on the rich and corporations in particular; ignore the facts that show that higher taxes on the rich and a more equal economy are better for everybody; and ignore the fact that their own policies (preemptive war and tax cuts during deficits from 2001-2008 under Bush) represent the substantial reason for long-term deficits--all in order to continue to support extraordinarily disproportionate spending on the military rather than on public infrastructure, education and health and in order to be able to continue to use the self-created "debt crisis" to push for further impoverization of America's middle class.  What a backwards value system that represents can't be expressed in a public blog.    But at least Reid has said that method of reneging on the agreement won't be allowed to happen: "Democrats aren't going to take an unfair, unrealistic load directed toward domestic discretionary spending and take it away from the military."    See Id.; see also  Reid: Dems will oppose efforts to spare Defense from automatic cuts , The Hil (Nov. 14, 2011).    As one of the commenters on The Hill notes (quoting an NPR program), the supercommittee is set up to force one of two bad choices--reducing the social safety net or cutbacks during economic recession.  What we should be doing is increasing taxes now on the rich and on corporations, and then allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire at the end of next year--in their entirety.  We should make judicious spending cuts in wasteful programs--and the military certainly should be a target of some of those cuts.  And we should make judicious spending increases in infrastructure, research and educational support programs to add stimulus to keep the economy going.    Case in point--the New York Times story today about a small town in Kentucky that decided to increase taxes to pay for infrastructure improvements that are putting the two back on the map.    originally published at   ataxingmatter        
   by   Mike Kimel     Scaling to New Depths* with Scott Sumner   I've been having a bit of back and forth with Scott Sumner.   Here  is his latest post, helpfully entitled: "A suggestion for Mike Kimel."  His key suggestion:   "Please take a close look at the data from the Great Depression, before doing more posts claiming I don’t know the facts."  He then goes on to point out he's been studying the 1933 period for 20 years.   From there he goes on to explain my first mistake:   He insists that FDR’s dollar depreciation program began in October 1933, even though all economic historians agree in began in mid-April 1933, when the exchange rate for the dollar began declining (against gold and against other currencies.)  He insists prices began rising before FDR took office off, which is not true.  He presents a graph that he claims shows prices rising before FDR took office, but his graph shows inflation rates, not the price level.  In fact, the graph actually supports my argument that inflation didn’t turn positive until after FDR took office.  There’s a difference between the rate of inflation and the price level.   OK.  Let's redo the graph showing not inflation but rather the price level.  And I'll keep it very simple...  I will limit it to two points.  Well, three, though the third is not exactly on the curve so to speak.  As before, I'm still using PPI because its the publicly available source most closely related to the prices Sumner seems to be discussing, and I'll use the graphics tool at the  Federal Reserve Economic Database (FRED)       Figure 1.    The graph shows the PPI for February and March of 1933.  FDR took office in March 1933.   As I noted in  my previous post ,   You can see the decline in prices halt and start reversing even before he took office.   Now, I don't remember arguing that inflation didn't turn positive before then.  To me, its a big deal that PPI hit rock bottom and reversed itself.  Getting out of free-fall was in itself a big deal.   Here's a graph for 1929 to 1934 to give you an idea:      Figure 2.   Note that February 1933 happened to be the low point for PPI during its entire history, and the PPI had been calculated since 1913.   But there's another important point in the quote I provided above, namely this:   He insists that FDR’s dollar depreciation program began in October 1933, even though all economic historians agree in began in mid-April 1933, when the exchange rate for the dollar began declining (against gold and against other currencies.)   This isn't quite right.  As I'll make clear, I don't think the dollar actually depreciated against gold until January 1934.  Sumner was so insistent on this depreciation occurring before then that I spent a bit of time on google and found a story by  Jesse Jones , head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, about how FDR had him and soon to be Treasury Secretary Morgenthau help him (FDR) revalue the price of gold.   Now, I am not an economic historian, and I'm not sure I know any these days, so for all I know, Sumner is correct about what all economic historians agree happened.  I am, instead a data guy.  I like data.  Scratch that.  I love data.  I go through data in my spare time.   Most of the stuff I do at this blog, for instance, has absolutely nothing to do with my day job.  Nothing.  But its an opportunity to play with data.  My wife usually scratches her head wondering why I do this kind of thing, but everyone needs a hobby and I don't watch tv.  One thing I've learned with data is that its generally important to go back as close to the original source of data as possible.  Another is to know something about your sources.  Go through the data.  Read footnotes.   So in that spirit, I decided to try see what I can learn by looking for data from the era or thereabouts, ideally coming directly from the folks who collect it.  I have not succeeded in finding a series that shows what Sumner claims.  In fact, data from around that era, particularly on gold prices, isn't easy to come by.  But I have found a few examples.  For instance, Table Number 230 of the  1936 Statistical Abstract of the United States  shows the supply of gold in the United States on June 30 of each year (going back annually to 1887, and with selected years before then).  The data seems to originate with the Treasury and the Fed, though I haven't been able to locate the contemporaneous originals.   Footnote 1 reads in part:   By a proclamation of the President dated Jan. 31, 1934 the weight of the gold dollar was reduced from 25.8 to 15 5/21 grains of gold, 0.9 fine. The value of gold is therefore based on $35 per fine ounce beginning June 1934; theretofore it is based on $20.67 per fine ounce.   In other words a couple months after Sumner and other economic historians believe the dollar had started losing value against gold, the Fed and/or the Treasury were reporting to the Census (which publishes the Statistical Abstract) that the price of gold was still exactly the same as it had been.)   Now, its possible the Census or the Fed or the Treasury made a mistake and it went uncorrected by the time of the 1936 Statistical Abstract.   So one source is not enough, especially when Sumner and "all economic historians" agree it is wrong.   Which leads to a Fed document called  Banking and Monetary Statistics 1914 - 1941 .  This is from the section on gold (bottom paragraph, left hand column, page 522)   All figures are in dollars, calculated at the rate of $20.67 per fine ounce of gold through January 1934 and $35 per fine ounce thereafter (except that the figures for the year 1934 in Table 159 are based upon the $35 gold price).  The change in rate results from the fact that on January 31, 1934, the dollar was devalued by 40.94 per cent in terms of gold in accordance with a proclamation issued by the President.   If you're curious, $35 - $20.67 = $14.33.  $14.33 happens to be 40.94% of $35.   The document is chock full of tables that show, including other things, the monthly value of US gold holdings.    Where dollar figures are involved, those tables also carry a helpful note indicating the price as $20.67 an ounce through January 1934, and $35 an ounce thereafter.  Note that the Fed valued monthly holdings at $20.67 an ounce in April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November and December of 1933 when, all along, according to Scott Sumner who spent 20 years studying the era and "all economic historians," insist the price of gold had been rising at the time.  I've stumbled on a few other sources as well but they don't look any different.  I'm just not seeing the series that shows the dollar price of gold rising during the months from April 1933 to January 1934.   So what is going on?  I'm going to split the baby here and suggest that both Scott Sumner and "all economic historians" are right that there was a devaluation, and the Fed and the Treasury and the Statistical Abstract of the United States were (and are) right that there wasn't.  But the way in which they are right is very definitely not a good thing for Scott Sumner and "all economic historians."  See, as I said above, I'm not an economic historian, but I did spend my formative years in South American in the 1970s and 1980s.  As anyone who spent roughly the same years in the region as I did could tell you, or as any Zimbabwean can do today, during times of turmoil (which can last decades) the official exchange rate can come to bear no relationship with the actual price at which a currency trades against something that is considered more stable and more desirable to hold.  Heck, you don't have to track down someone from Arrgentina or Zimbabwe - ask any European who ever visited the Soviet Block and traded in some Western currency at the airport or the border about how unrealistic official exchange rates could be.  In many an economic basket case, the likelihood that a transaction takes place at anything resembling the official exchange rate is similar to the probability that someone walks into a Chevrolet dealership and pays the MSRP, in cash.   And like the MSRP, the official exchange rate has a purpose.  Yes, there's always someone clueless or coerced enough to pay that price.  But for the most part, its a fiction that either serves as a baseline for something or papers over something the government wants to really do, usually printing money.  Its a handy excuse to get from point A to point B, and if the excuse doesn't fly, another one will do.  My guess, and I'll repeat that I'm not an economic historian, is that when FDR and Jones and Morgenthau were picking prices out of the air, it was in that vein.  The country was in turmoil when FDR took office, and there were fears that if things got worse there would be an armed insurrection.  It wasn't a time for half measures.  My guess is the mood in the White House at the time was best summarized by a quote decades later from the immortal John Candy, "There's a time to think, and a time to act. And this, gentlemen, is no time to think."    So what did the fiction of changing the price gold accomplish if nobody else believe that the price had actually changed?  I suspect it meant, in practice, that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation could pay more than $20.67 an ounce for gold.  And why would the RFC (which, I note, could borrow outside the budget) want to pay more than $20.67 an ounce for gold if that was the price everyone was accepting?  Think of the RFC the way you think of the Fed trying to bail out banks in recent years - loaning money at below market rates to banks who then used the money to buy Treasuries which paid higher rates.  In effect, paying more than $20.67 an ounce was a way to funnel riskless profits to banks.  (Of course, the RFC often replaced management, but things have gotten permissive as well as more sophisticated in recent decades.)   Which brings us back to Sumner and "all economic historians" being right, at least technically.  Yes, the currency was being devalued throughout much of 1933, but no, it wasn't.  Not really.  There were a series of fictional devaluations that served a specific purpose, but which nobody else made believe was real (and its possible which almost nobody else was aware were happening - don't ask me, I'm not an economic historian).   Pretending otherwise, and using that fictional data to do an analysis is the equivalent of trying to understand the East German economy in 1974 using the exchange rates a traveler would have received at Checkpoint Charlie during that year.   * The title comes from a book put out by Mad Magazine in the 1970s or 1980s.  Sorry I can't be more specific - it has been a while      
   The  Washington Post  points us to a study on the overall impact of regulations and jobs:   The critique of regulations fits into a broader conservative narrative about government overreach. But it also comes after a string of disasters in recent years that were tied to government regulators falling short, including the financial crisis of 2008, the BP oil spill and the West Virginia mining accident last year.     Data  from the  Bureau of Labor Statistics  show that very few layoffs are caused principally by tougher rules.    Whenever a firm lays off workers,  the bureau  asks executives the biggest reason for the job cuts.    In 2010, 0.3 percent of the people who lost their jobs in layoffs were let go because of “government regulations/intervention.” By comparison, 25 percent were laid off because of a drop in business demand.        
   Yves Smith provides an overnight look at  OWS Zucotti Park 'cleaning' by NYPD . The post has frequent updates and is very long, so a visit is in order if interested.      
   by  Linda Beale    GOP two-step approach problematic    Discussion continued apace yesterday about the "supercommittee" and the idea of agreeing to agree someday on some revenue increases while going ahead with cuts.    This approach is a terrible one since it gives the obstructionist GOP members just another setting in which to refuse to go ahead with tax increases and to "negotiate" yet again over just what counts as a revenue increase.  Like the gimmicks that became so overused in the 2001, 2003, 2004 Bush tax bills, this "deal" is just another gimmick for the radical right to get its way--cuts to Social Security and Medicare, cuts to all programs intended to help the vulnerable, no cuts to military programs, and no tax increases--especially not for the rich.    Republicans on the right are already arguing for applying "dynamic analysis" which tends, in their versions, to be rosy scenarios of increased growth due to tax cuts:     this is a cop-out way to claim revenue increases that won't materialize while making actual cuts to much needed social programs.  They are also arguing for dramatic changes in the way the earned benefits programs work--such as means-testing for recipients--as first steps in working towards outright elimination of those programs.  You get comments like those of Jim Jordan (Republican of Ohio) who wrote in an op-ed in USA Today that taxes "should not punish success to satisfy some false definition of balance."  See Rubin,   Debt Accord May be Two-Step Process, Hensarling Says , Bloomberg (Nov. 14, 2011).    Meanwhile, Jim Jordan (Republican of Ohio) said in a USA Today piece that taxes should not be raised because they "should not punish success to satisfy some false definition of balance."  Id.     This is a wrongheaded view of taxes.  The radical right uses language about taxes "punishing success" because they see defending the rich from  taxation as their mission.  The rich are defined as "successful"--even if the wealth is merely built on top of inherited wealth and position, and even if the rich did nothing at all to earn the wealth.  Taxes do not punish success.  Taxes are the way that we cooperate together to fund important government programs that serve all of us.  Even when they act as transfer programs that transfer resources to the poor and elderly, they are serving all of us by making our society work better.     originally published at  ataxingmatter       
   by  Mike Kimel    Scott Sumner Digs Deeper   Scott Sumner  criticizes  my most recent post in which I indicate that Keynesian theory explains growth rates during the New Deal era better than theories proposed by monetarists.  He starts by criticizing this, which I wrote in my  earlier post .  Aggregate demand was very slack when FDR took office.  FDR showed up in Washington with a plan to start spending a lot of money and thus boost aggregate demand.  The immediate effect was to convince factories they'd be running down their inventories. That boosted producer prices. It had a much smaller effect on consumer prices because everyone knew the gubmint was going to buy a heck of a lot more producer goods than consumer goods. (The government did buy some consumer goods for the various programs, plus there was a spillover effect, but as the graph clearly shows, the action was on the producer side.)   After a bit of time, the public realized FDR wasn't planning just a one-off, but rather a sustained program of purchases of industrial items. That led them to start using some of their idle capacity, which meant not just selling the fixed amount that was in inventory. The rate of price increases thus dropped.   GDP increased the fastest rate in the United States peacetime history since data has been kept. There was a big hiccup, of course, in 1937 when the government cut back on spending for a while.    Sumner's most important point:     Prices didn’t start rising when FDR came to Washington with spending plans; they started rising when he began depreciating the dollar.  Furthermore, the weekly rise in the WPI index was highly correlated with weekly increases in the dollar price of gold (i.e. currency depreciation.)  And those changes (in gold prices) were caused by explicit statements and actions by FDR.  Not by fiscal stimulus, which would be expected to appreciate the dollar.   OK.  Using the cool graphical tool from FRED, the Federal Reserve Economic Database, I generated this graph of the series that from what I can tell seems to be Sumner's favorite price index when discussing the period:     Figure 1.    Now, take a gander at the graph.  And bear in mind, FDR was inaugurated in March 1933.  But everyone knew what he was going to do, spending-wise, once he showed up.  You can see the decline in prices halt and start reversing even before he took office.  Additionally, I'm not sure what Sumner means when he refers to the period when he says FDR "began depreciating the dollar."  There was a gold standard in place going back a long time.  That means the value of the dollar was its price in gold.  The price of gold was $20.67 an ounce for decades before FDR took office.  It was $20.67 an ounce until the Gold Reserve Act of January 30, 1934, when the price of gold was changed to $35 an ounce.  (To be precise, the government devalued the dollar on January 31, the day after the Act passed.)    The peak in the curve came in February 1934, days or at most weeks (the index isn't that precise) after the Gold Reserve Act.  Put another way...  price inflation using Sumner's measure peaked when the currency was devalued.  That is precisely 100% the opposite of what Sumner wrote.    But there are some extenuating circumstances for Sumner.     (The next paragraph summarizes  this story , from the memoirs of Jesse Jones.)    It seems that on October 22, 1933, Jones, the head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and Henry Morgenthau, then Farm Credit Administrator but soon to be Treasury Secretary, were told by FDR to come by on October 23 to devaluing the dollar by changing its relationship with gold.  The three men - FDR, Morgenthau, and Jones, then went about raising the price of gold by fiat between then and January 31, 1934, when prices came to rest at $35 an ounce, a price where they stayed through 1971.  I assume that's what Sumner is talking about.  So let me modify Figure 1 to only show the period from January to October 1933.     Figure 2.  Now, recall, Sumner's evidence that the Keynesian view is wrong and the monetary view is right is:  "Prices didn’t start rising when FDR came to Washington with spending plans; they started rising when he began depreciating the dollar."  And yet...  the graph shows very clearly that prices started to rise when FDR came to Washington with spending plans, not at the end of October when he began depreciating the dollar.  As is very evident from the graph, by that time prices had already been increasing for quite a while.  Wholesale prices, by October 1, were up 17% from the beginning of the year.  If you started in October of 1933, it wasn't until December of 1936 before prices increased another 17%.    The point is, Sumner is wrong.  He is very wrong about when prices started to rise.  He is also very wrong about why prices started to rise.  And since "when" and "why" are assumptions in his model, his model is very wrong.    Now, for completeness I'm going to tackle the other thing Sumner mentioned in his post.  Sumner's critique of me includes this:   There are all sorts of the problems with the argument that the inflation of 1933-34 was caused by expectations of fiscal stimulus.  First of all, it’s completely at variance with Keynesian theory, which Kimel seems to be trying to defend.  Keynesian theory says demand stimulus doesn’t raise prices when there is “slack,” and there has never been more slack in all of American history than in 1933.   The problem for Sumner is that Keynesian theory is merely an extension of good old fashioned Adam Smith.  Prices depend on supply and demand.  You can have a good or service go up in price locally even as it goes down everywhere else.    As I noted in my earlier post, and he quoted:     The immediate effect was to convince factories they'd be running down their inventories... After a bit of time, the public realized FDR wasn't planning just a one-off, but rather a sustained program of purchases of industrial items. That led them to start using some of their idle capacity, which meant not just selling the fixed amount that was in inventory. The rate of price increases thus dropped.   Which of course, is very consistent with the timing of events.    None of this is to pick on Sumner.  There's a whole cottage industry dedicated to advancing a story that government spending cannot have a positive effect on the economy during recessions or depressions.  The problem for those trying to advance that story is that government spending does seem to correlate with positive effects during those periods.  So alternate theories are proposed, and have been proposed for decades.  And those theories often make a lot of sense... until you take a close look at the data.      
   In the   New York Times  today:   The  Supreme Court  on Monday agreed to hear a challenge to the 2010  health care overhaul  law, President Obama’s signature legislative achievement. The development set the stage for oral arguments by March and a decision in late June, in the midst of the 2012 presidential campaign…    …     Appeals from three courts had been vying for the justices’ attention , presenting an array of issues beyond the central one of whether Congress has the constitutional power to require people to purchase health insurance or face a penalty through the so-called individual mandate.     The Supreme Court agreed to hear appeals from just one decision, from the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta,     the only one so far striking down the mandate.  The decision , from a divided three-judge panel, said the mandate overstepped Congressional authority and could not be justified by the constitutional power “to regulate commerce” or “to lay and collect taxes.”     The appeals court went no further, though, severing the mandate from the rest of the law.     On Monday, the justices agreed to decide not only whether the mandate is constitutional but also whether, if it is not, how much of the balance of the law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, must fall along with it.     …    On Monday, the justices agreed to consider that question. The justices also said they would consider an intriguing threshold issue.    In September, a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va.,  ruled that it was premature to decide the case  in light of the Anti-Injunction Act, a federal law that bars suits “for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax.” The Supreme Court had interpreted the term “tax” very broadly for purposes of the law.     If the Fourth Circuit ruling is correct, individuals may not challenge the individual mandate until the first penalty is due in April 2015. On Tuesday, a dissenting judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit  also endorsed that position .          
   by  Linda Beale     Super-Congress wants to have its cake and eat it too     So the Democrats and Republicans on the so-called "Super-Committee" that is supposed to find $1.2 trillion in budget reductions/increased revenues within a week now thinks it has a solution--let the regular tax committees (Finance and Ways &amp; Means) come up with the tax revenues, while the Super-Committee will go on and specify the spending cuts.  See  Deficit Panel Seeks to Defer Details on Raising Taxes , New York Times (Nov. 14, 2011).    The proposal doesn't sound like anything that the Dems on the panel should accept.  For a piddling reduction in some of the deductions available to the most affluent individuals, the GOP is willing to lower the rate on those individuals to 28%!  Just more enriching the rich.  The Dems shouldn't agree to that.  Especially since Grover Norquist thinks that any such agreement would be undone immediately, while any stupid agreement the Dems make to "reforming" (i.e., cutting benefits from) the earned benefits programs will be allowed to take place.          Grover G. Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, whose antitax pledge has been signed by most Republicans in Congress, said in an interview, “I am not losing any sleep” over the Republicans’ latest proposal. Mr. Norquist said he was confident that, “at the end of the day, the Republican House will not pass a tax increase.”      “As a face-saving measure,” Mr. Norquist said, the deficit reduction panel “could give lots of instructions to the tax-writing committees.” In complying with those instructions, he said, the House and the Senate could pass very different bills.  Id.      It is hard to see why any cuts to the earned benefits programs should be made. Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are more important now than ever because of the weak economy.  We are a rich country and we can afford these programs.Tax 100% of compensation for Social Security.   And treat all profits interests as compensation income when allocations are received, so that partnerships treat persons as partners only when they have a capital investment in the partnership business.    Let the military be cut at least $750 billion.  And raise the rest through taxes--especially through a progressive estate tax and through eliminating the character preference for capital gains income.     This country is tired of being held hostage by far-right radicals  who don't understand that the government acts for the people and who don't give a damn for anybody that isn't in the top 20% of the income and wealth distribution.  We are tired of the radical right's anarchistic actions to prevent the government from borrowing money to carry out important programs.  We are tired of the radical right's stupidity about the economy and its reliance on ideological beliefs in "trickle down" programs to justify tax cuts no matter what situation the country is in.  We are tired of the radical right's refusal to acknowledge the facts about the failures of the four-decade experiment with reaganomics, during which time the large multinational corporations have been allowed to function like quasi-sovereigns.  We are tired of seeing tax policies that support consolidation of corporate empires and movement of business overseas, while Americans lose jobs and watch their wages decline.         originally published at  ataxingmatter        
    Mother Jones  points us to a  Stimson Center  study, titled   What We Bought: Defense Procurement From FY01 to FY10  (PDF), (via Reader Supported News).   From the report      Procurement funding grew from $62.6B in FY01 to as much as $135.8B throughout the decade.3 In constant dollars, base procurement funding in FY10 increased by 41 percent from FY01.4 Increases also were augmented by the use of supplemental war funding. In FY02, only $1.4B was appropriated for procurement in supplemental war funding. That increased every year until $65.9B was appropriated in FY08. FY08 ended up as the high water mark, but the following three years have all seen procurement funding of about $30B included in war funding.5 In all, $232.8B or 22 percent of total procurement funding in the last decade came from supplemental war funding. Although procurement funding increased in the base budget, supplemental war funding significantly enhanced the resources available.       The Mother Jones article   says the military is hardly in dire straits when it comes to funding its big-ticket items. "The services capitalized on funding to modernize their forces, especially the major weapons programs that constitute the heart of the services' capabilities," writes the report's author, Russell Rumbaugh—a retired Army officer and ex-CIA military analyst.    The study shows there's one big reason the brass are concerned about budget-cutting discussions in Congress: They've been double dipping into the taxpayer's pocket to finance weapons purchases. Of the roughly $1 trillion spent on gadgetry since 9/11, 22 percent of it came from "supplemental" war funding—annual outlays that are voted on separately from the regular defense budget. Those bills are primarily intended to keep day-to-day operations running in Iraq and Afghanistan—meaning that if a member of Congress votes against a supplemental spending bill, she exposes herself to charges that she doesn't "support the troops" in harm's way.    And there's plenty to cut, thanks to McKeon and his congressional cohort. This spring, they  preserved defense earmarks  after vowing that they wouldn't; voted to  make more Humvees the Army doesn't want  (and reject Afghanistan base defense systems that it did); to keep  an unnecessary $3 billion GE contract  to build an "alternative engine" for the single-engine Joint Strike Fighter, whose costs are approaching $1 trillion; and  to repatriate US victims  of the 1804 Barbary War in Libya.    In their defense, they did vote to trim defense dollars by  banning color copies  at the Pentagon.          
             Fashion Playtes , which I’ve told you about before is a really cool site for your daughter to customize her clothing is offering a great Black Friday Deal. They are having a  25% off clothing &amp; accessories sale  when you use coupon code   FF25   at checkout. You will also receive a $25 e-gift card for every $50 you spend.    Shop here —&gt;&gt;&gt;  FashionPlayte.com     Here’s Sofia’s cute label:                         Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     25% off FashionPlaytes + $25 Gift Card Promotion  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        There is a  HOT new printable coupon  available for ALL Laundry Detergent.  Save  $1.00 off one all Laundry Detergent . This is a printable coupon we don’t see often!    Get this printable coupon here —-&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  $1/1l Laundry Detergent     Check the  Coupon Database  to search for even more coupons or you can read my past post on my   favorite hot printable coupons . You can read about how to save on ink while printing these fabulous coupons in my previous post “ Tips for Printing Internet Coupons .”     Hot! $1 off All Laundry Detergent Printable Coupon  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             Toys “R” Us  has started their online sale, which looks like the same deals you will find in store, without having to even leave your couch!       35% off LEGO Set    40% off All Leapster Software    B1G1 Free Disney Princess &amp; Me Doll Outfits    55% off Bratz Dolls priced $10.99+    60% off Squinkies       Free shipping  at  ToysRUs.com  on purchases of $49 or more. Also, you can earn 10% back with  Rewards “R” Us .    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Toys “R” Us Black Friday Sale Live Online Now!  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
                      I heard this movie was pretty funny.  Still haven’t had a chance to watch it yet.  Any opinions?  If you loved it, now you can purchase this movie on DVD,  Bridesmaids   for just $5.99 or rent it from  Amazon  on Demand for only $3.99!           Also available for purchase is this new  Apple MacBook Air MC968LL/A 11.6-Inch Laptop (NEWEST VERSION)  for just $849.99 plus free shipping .  I love my new mac computer!  This is a great deal!  Computer features include:          Intel Core i5 Dual Core (1.6GHz, 3MB L3 Cache)    116″ (1366 x 768) LED Backlit Display    Intel HD Graphics 3000    2GB DDR3 1333 RAM (4GB max)    64GB Flash Storage    Mac OS X Lion    2.38 Pounds                 This looks SO soft!  You can get a  1000 Thread Count QUEEN size Egyptian DUVET COVER, CHOCOLATE BROWN   on sale for just $42.25! Shipping costs an additional $5.50.            Amazon  Students can get a free  $2 MP3 Credit   when you use coupon code:  STUDYBRK  at online check-out. Coupon Must be redeemed by November 28, 2011 at 11:59pm.          You can also purchase  The Lord of the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy (The Fellowship of the Ring / The Two Towers / The Return of the King Extended Editions + Digital Copy) [Blu-ray]   for just $49.99 (Free Shipping Included).     Amazon: Deals in Electronics, DVD’s, Bedding and More 11/24  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            This black Friday weekend (November 25-27,2011)  Kids Eat FREE at IKEA !  Offer valid for (1) kids combo meal per child (under age 12).  No adult purchase necessary.  Valid at participating locations.    Thanks,   Mama Cheaps!        Craving more restaurant savings? Be sure to check out the rest of the  Restaurant Deals  for more savings!      IKEA: Kids Eat Free Black Friday Weekend  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             One King’s Lane  is offering a $15 credit when you register for their site. There are several items $15 or less in the Holiday Cookie Decorating Shopping Event.  Shipping starts at $6.95.     Sign up here —-&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  One King’s Lane      Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     One King’s Lane $15 Credit = Cheap Baking Items!  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Here’s a great deal on a  KitchenAid Stand Mixer  if you have been waiting to purchase it! After rebates it just $98 shipped.      Here’s How:      :: Head over to the  KitchenAid Classic Plus 4.5 Qt Stand Mixer  is on sale for $199.99 (Retail $259.99)    :: When you add into the cart, it brings the price down to $179.99    :: Enter code   CON20HH4   to get $36 discount    :: Pay $143.99, sales tax, and $3.25 shipping surcharge    ::  Submit for $20 Rebate     ::  Get $15 Kohl’s Cash for every $50 spent  = $30     It’s like paying $97.24 + sales tax after Rebate &amp; Kohl’s Cash.     Thanks to Source:  Saving Cents with Sense !     Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     KitchenAid Stand Mixer $98 after Rebates  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        Are you member of the  Pampers Gifts to Grow Program ? You can get 100 FREE points just by signing up.    Enter code    FAC1124PPXD36XF    to get an additional 10 points.    Sign up here —&gt;&gt;&gt;   Pampers Gifts to Grow Program      If you are not a  Gifts to Grow member , you will want to sign up for this completely  free  program. You don’t even have to have a child in diapers because there is often free codes you will find!     Thanks,  Deal Wise Mommy !      Find  more free codes .     10 Points Pampers Gifts to Grow Free Code  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Best Buy is offering a  $100 iTunes gift card for just $80 . Ships FREE!    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Best Buy: $100 iTunes Gift Card for $80  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
              Vistaprint  is offering 10 Personalized Gifts for FREE!  Well, they say FREE but there is a shipping charge starting at $3.03, depending on where you live. I’ve been ordering these deals from  Vistaprint  for awhile and they always ship faster than stated! I just ordered some very cute Bargain Briana notepads and sticky n0tes! I’ll probably be giving some of these away in my  Coupon Classes !    There are so many uses for some of these items! Create  personalized labels  for your children to put on their personal items, personalized gift labels, and many more ideas with the return address labels! Another idea for the holidays is to make custom gift tags…I know I get tired of hand writing all six of my family member’s names on gifts and sometimes “The Carters” is too generic depending on which family we are exchanging gifts with! More Details on the rest of items below.        Here’s how     :: Visit  Vistaprint .    :: Choose your free product.    :: Choose your design and customize.    :: Select the cheapest shipping method.    :: Click no or next to every other offer as they will try to upsell you for several screens.    :: Confirm the final price.      FREE Holiday Postcards  (Qty. 100) Get your message across this holiday season with customizable postcards! Use them as holiday cards, invitations or announcements for home and business use. Mailing services available. Matching envelopes available at checkout. Create today and receive in as few as 3 days. Printing is free, shipping starts at $7.     FREE Business Cards  (Qty. 250) Choose from 45 templates printed in full color on premium 80 lb card stock. Select a design template and personalize it to best suit your needs. Easily add your own logo or photo. Business cards can be used mommy contact cards, personal contact cards, networking cards, appointment reminder cards, loyalty cards, tiny greeting cards, referral cards, raffle tickets, place cards &amp; much more. Upgrade to premium business cards and save 50%. Printing is free, shipping starts at $5.67.     FREE Photo Holiday Cards  (Qty. 10) Choose from flat or folded holiday cards with Free Envelopes. Order today, and save 50% off higher quantities. Products are free, shipping starts at $4.60.     FREE Photo Calendars  (Qty. 1) Impress family, friends or customers with customizable photo wall calendars this Holiday Season. Select from Wall or Desk calendar and hundreds of templates to suit your style. Choose icons, add captions and highlight important dates. Upload your photos from Facebook, Flickr or Picasa. Calendars make perfect holiday gifts! Create today and receive in as few as 3 days. Bonus: Order today and save 50% off higher quantities. Printing is free, shipping starts at $5.67.     FREE Holiday Labels  (Qty. 140) Spread the cheer with every letter you send! Stick your labels on festive holiday letters, cards and packages. Choose from thousands of designs, upload photos or create caricature return address labels. Create up to 7 caricatures of your family, friends and pets! Use labels as To-From stickers, gift tags &amp; more! Printing is free, shipping &amp; processing starts at $3.07.     FREE Mug  (Qty. 1) Serve up some fun with a 11-oz full color ceramic mug. Choose from a variety of designs and personalize with your text. Have fun creating a gift to warm hearts this holiday season! Printing is free, shipping &amp; processing starts at $6.06.     FREE Holiday Stamp  (Qty. 1) Choose from over a dozen designs and make holiday labeling a tad easier this year. Choose from red, black or blue ink. Printing is free, shipping &amp; processing starts at $5.67.     FREE Tote Bag  (Qty. 1) Perfect for everyday use, these 100% canvas tote bags can be customized with your name and message. Choose from 24 designs. Printing is free, shipping &amp; processing starts at $4.41.     What  Vistaprint Freebie  will you be getting?      10 Free Personalized Gifts | Just Pay Shipping (as low as $3.03)  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             Veggie Tales  is offering 40% off Storewide, with Free shipping on orders $30 or more. This brings down the adorable  VeggieTales Nativity Playset toy  down to just $14.99.    Sale ends November 30, 2011.    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     VeggieTales: 40% off Site Wide (Ends 11/30)  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            CVS Deals 11/24 &#8211; 11/26    **Check your  CVS Weekly Ad     New to CVS? Check out  CVS 101  to maximize your savings!    Continue reading: CVS Deals 11/24 &#8211; 11/26      
            Here’s several  new printable coupons  worth printing. Print these while you can!        $1.00 off any (2) Tone Body Washes       $3.00 off The Nutcracker: The Untold Story      $5.00 off on a Mega Bloks Wagon      $20.00 off on the Mega Bloks Need for Speed      $0.35 off any (1) Tone Bar      $1.00 off Your Purchase of Us Weekly        Check the  Coupon Database  to search for even more coupons or you can read my past post on my   favorite hot printable coupons . You can read about how to save on ink while printing these fabulous coupons in my previous post “ Tips for Printing Internet Coupons .”     Hot Printable Coupons: Tone, Mega Bloks, and More!  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Walmart has this  Blue Nintendo Wii Console  (only) for $99.96 and ships free to home. If you prefer a bundle, there is a  Super Mario Brothers Black Wii  Bundle  available for $149.96.       Target has this  Mario Kart Nintendo Wii bundle online  for just $149.99 shipped.    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Nintendo Wii Console $99 | Bundles $149  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             Amazon  has some great DVD deals going on right now.     Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 1   – $4.99     Bridesmaids   – $5.99     Despicable Me (Single-Disc Edition)   – $5.99    Fast Five   – $8.99     X-Men: First Class   – $8.99     The King’s Speech   – $5.99     Barbie DVDs   – prices starting at $4.99     Modern Family: The Complete Second Season   – $12.99    Ships free with  Amazon Prime  or Super Saver Shipping. Find out how to get a  FREE one month trial to Amazon Prime .    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Amazon Movie Deals: Harry Potter, X-Men, Modern Family, and More!  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Carter’s has a FABULOUS sale going on  Black Friday in stores and online . You can save 50% off all your purchases, plus free shipping on Carter’s and OshKosh B’Gosh orders of $50 or more. There is no coupon required.  Note: Excludes clearance, bath and body care, Melissa and Doug toys and Carter’s at Home.   Excludes clearance and doorbusters     Early Bird Special – Save an additional 10% on Friday in-stores only until noon!          For More Holiday Bargains:                      Carter’s 50% off Black Friday  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
     [print_link]            Target Deals *Black Friday Special*      **View your  Target Weekly Ad  for more deals.      New to Target shopping? Check out  Target 101  to maximize your savings!         Thanks to Marcy for putting together a great Target list. I’ve listed the highlights and you can find the rest of the great deals at  Stretching a Buck !        Target Printable Coupons      Target Official Coupon Policy      Target Official Price Matching Policy       	  		   			   				   				   					  Select All    					  Deselect All    				   						   			   			   				   				 iPod Touch 8GB   				 -   $195/ea  				  Get a $40 Target Gift Card WYB 1 			   			  			   			   							   			 Final Price:  Like $155 after Gift Card 		     
            You can score a deal on a  one year subscription to  Flex  magazine . Purchase this today at  DiscountMags  for just $3.68 when you use coupon code  BARGAINBRIANA  at checkout. You can get up to 3 years at this price.     This offer expires at midnight 11/24/2011.     Create your own Deal: Save up to 20% on almost every order at DiscountMags with coupon code   BARGAINBRIANA   at checkout.     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     One Year Subscription Flex Magazine $3.68  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            These  LeapPad Explorer Learning Tablets  are the hot item this year! It’s hard to even find them in stock.  Kmart  has them in stock right now for $99.99 shipped. Available in pink or green. Grab this now while you can.    Use coupon code   K5OFF50TOYS12   at checkout to get $5 off to bring your price down to just $94.99 shipped!     Sears  also  has these available online for $99 .     Thanks to Source:  Frugal Coupon Living !     Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     LeapPad Explorer Learning Tablet: $95 Shipped  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            You can score a deal on a  one year subscription to  Family Fun  magazine . Purchase this today at  DiscountMags  for just $3.50 when you use coupon code  BARGAINBRIANA  at checkout. You can get up to 3 years at this price.     This offer expires at 9:59 pm on 11/24/2011.     Create your own Deal: Save up to 20% on almost every order at DiscountMags with coupon code   BARGAINBRIANA   at checkout.     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     One Year Subscription Family Fun Magazine $3.50  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Here’s some of the latest hot holiday deals that have been posted on the blog in case you have been busy baking! You can also search the  Black Friday Coupon Database here .    This list automatically updates with the latest posts so you may want to bookmark this page!     Top Photo Deals        10 Free Personalized Gifts | Just Pay Shipping (as low as $3.03)    $5 off Kodak Kiosk Photo Calendar Printable Coupon    Free Birthday Card from Tiny Prints    See Here: 20 Photo Cards $1.49 Shipped    Snapfish: Photobooks B1G2 Free       Hot Holiday Deals           25% off FashionPlaytes + $25 Gift Card Promotion    Toys “R” Us Black Friday Sale Live Online Now!    Amazon: Deals in Electronics, DVD’s, Bedding and More 11/24    One King’s Lane $15 Credit = Cheap Baking Items!    KitchenAid Stand Mixer $98 after Rebates    Best Buy: $100 iTunes Gift Card for $80    10 Free Personalized Gifts | Just Pay Shipping (as low as $3.03)    VeggieTales: 40% off Site Wide (Ends 11/30)    CVS Deals 11/24 – 11/26    Nintendo Wii Console $99 | Bundles $149    Amazon Movie Deals: Harry Potter, X-Men, Modern Family, and More!    LeapPad Explorer Learning Tablet: $95 Shipped    Bath &amp; Body: VIP Body Works Bag $20 with $40 Purchase + Other Deals    Dyson DC33 $254.15 Shipped + $75 Kohl’s Cash    Select Barbie DVDs – $4.99 Shipped    25% off Vera Bradley    US Weekly Magazine Subscription – as low as $0.52/issue    Lands’ End: 30% off + Free Shipping on Orders $50+    XBox 360 Kinect: Sesame Street Once Upon a Monster $24.99    shopkicks App: Free $25 Restaurant.com Gift Card w/First Walk-In    Professional Headphone with Mic for XBOX 360 $5.09    Lego Sets: 2 for $20    PlayStation 3 Bundle: $199.96    Target: Nook Color $199 + $30 Gift Card    Applebee’s: $10 Bonus Gift Card with $50 Gift Card Purchase    Super 8 DVD $11.99    Nickelodeon Fit for Wii $19.96    Despicable Me DVD $5.99    Free Birthday Card from Tiny Prints    Hallmark: $5 off $10 Printable Coupon        Hot Printable Coupons        Hot! $1 off All Laundry Detergent Printable Coupon    Hot Printable Coupons: Tone, Mega Bloks, and More!    $1 off Similac Powder Printable Coupon    $5 off Kodak Kiosk Photo Calendar Printable Coupon    $1.50 off I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter All Purpose Sticks    SUPER 8 Movie: $5 Off Printable Coupon    Hallmark: $5 off $10 Printable Coupon    Family Dollar: $5 Off $25+ Purchase Printable Coupon    $5 off KRE-O Construction Sets Printable Coupon    Hot Printable Coupons: Spongebob or Dora Wrapping Paper, Crayola Fab Snaps, Robitussin, and More!       Giveaways     Error: Feed has a error or is not valid     Today’s Posts         Toys “R” Us Black Friday Sale Live Online Now!    Amazon: Deals in Electronics, DVD’s, Bedding and More 11/24    IKEA: Kids Eat Free Black Friday Weekend    One King’s Lane $15 Credit = Cheap Baking Items!    KitchenAid Stand Mixer $98 after Rebates    10 Points Pampers Gifts to Grow Free Code    Best Buy: $100 iTunes Gift Card for $80    10 Free Personalized Gifts | Just Pay Shipping (as low as $3.03)    VeggieTales: 40% off Site Wide (Ends 11/30)    CVS Deals 11/24 – 11/26    Hot Printable Coupons: Tone, Mega Bloks, and More!    Nintendo Wii Console $99 | Bundles $149    Amazon Movie Deals: Harry Potter, X-Men, Modern Family, and More!    Carter’s 50% off Black Friday    Target Deals: Black Friday 2011 Preview Match-Ups    One Year Subscription Flex Magazine $3.68    LeapPad Explorer Learning Tablet: $95 Shipped    One Year Subscription Family Fun Magazine $3.50    Hot Holiday Deals    American Express Holiday Shopping Challenge | $250 Gift Card Giveaway            Find more  Hot Holiday Deals  on the  Home Page !     Hot Holiday Deals  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
         American Express  has given me a challenge, I do believe I can complete – shop for five people on a budget. They are providing me with $250 to shop while supporting at least one Small Business as part of the  Small Business Saturday Event  on November 26, 2011.    I’ve also been provided with 40,000  American Express Membership Rewards points  to find additional gifts or maybe a gift for myself! As a long time American Express Holder, I know these points can be redeemed for electronics, travel, and even gift cards. I rarely carry cash, as it disappears too easily, so I use my American Express card for almost every purchase, pay it off each month, and earn points on my shopping and everyday purchases.       American Express is encouraging shoppers to shop  Small Business Saturday  and get a $25 credit back when you register an eligible American Express Card. Then use your card for a purchase of $25 or more at a small business on November 26 to receive your statement credit. Small businesses are the heart of the economy. They are the jobs creators and mean so much to many communities.    I used the zip code finder on the  Small Business Saturday  Facebook page and came up with several small businesses in my area including Moser Jewelers, Pizza King, and Ace Hardware. All of these are within a five minute drive, which saves time and gas.     American Express would like to give one lucky Bargain Briana a $250 Gift Card of your choice!  Next week, I’ll announce the winner and share the 5 gifts I was able to purchase with a $250.     How to Win?       Prize:  $250 Gift Card of your choice    You can enter up to 4 times with the following methods:    1. Leave a comment: How do you stay within your holiday budget?     **If you are reading in an email or a feed reader, you must click over to enter this giveaway. Entries via email are not accepted.     2. Subscribe to my  FREE newsletter . You must confirm your email for a valid entry. If you are already a subscriber, leave a comment letting me know you are already getting the bargains in your inbox!    3.  Become a Facebook Like of  Bargain Briana .    4. Tweet the Following on Twitter:     Enter to win a $250 Gift Card + Shop Small Business Saturday via @bargainbriana      Please leave a comment for each additional entry.      Giveaway ends on November 28, 2011 at 8 a.m. EST.    Winner will be chosen by random. Be sure  bargainbriana@gmail.com  is in your safe sender list as you don’t want to miss the email if you are the chosen winner. U.S. Residents only. Alternate entry: Mail a postcard with the giveaway you are entering along with your name, address, and  email  to PO Box 14, Tipton, IN 46072.    This giveaway was sponsored  by American Express. This Post was written by me and was not edited by the sponsor. Find a static page of the  giveaways you can enter here . Read more on my  Disclosure Policy     Want to win a $250  Amazon .com gift card? Be sure to enter my  $250 Amazon.com gift card Holiday Giveaway ! Check back throughout the week for more  Giveaways !  Good Luck!      American Express Holiday Shopping Challenge | $250 Gift Card Giveaway  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        All the giveaways for the Holiday 2011 Giveaway Bash have been posted.  Just a reminder that the ones ending soon!    Giveaways Ending Thursday, November 24 at 3 p.m. EST:          HP Web Cam      Cracker Barrel      Lands’ End      Way Basic Storage Cubes      DaySpring         Giveaways Ending Tuesday, November 29 at 3 p.m. EST:          Rockboard Scooters      Bertolli Pot and Accessories      $100 Carter’s Gift Card      $100 Ebates Cash      $120 in Designer Reusable Bags from Envirosax        You can also enter for more chances on these blogs:        $5 Dinners      Balancing Beauty and Bedlam      Bargain Babe      Frugal Coupon Living      Mommies with Style      Moms Need to Know      Passion for Savings      Saving Cents with Sense      Savings Lifestyle      Southern Savers      Stretching a Buck        I have more giveaways up my sleeve for on Black Friday, Cyber Monday, and more! Find more  Giveaways  here.          Giveaway Reminder: DaySpring, Cracker Barrel, Lands’ End, and More!  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        If you haven’t already, you can try  Netflix for free with this One Month Free Trial .  After your free membership is over, once you select a package that fits your needs as a paying member, you will receive a  $10 Papa John’s Gift Card .  You can play these movies through your laptop computer,Wii, Xbox, PS3, iPhone, iTouch, iPad, or even Apple TV.     Netflix: One Month Free Trial + $10 Papa Johns Gift Card w/Membership  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        The 2011  VIP Bath &amp; Body Works Bag  is now available online. You will also be able to get these on Friday but you can beat the rush online! I bought this bag last year and I was very satisfied with the items in it. The bag is yours for just $20 (over $100 value) with any $40 purchase. Use code   VIP11   at checkout. Shipping is $7.99.    Some of the things on sale:       Signature Collection Body Care Products &#8211; Buy 3, Get 2 FREE    Anti-Bacterial Hand Soap &#8211; 4/$15 or 6/$20    Wallflower &amp; Scentportables &#8211; 4/$20 or 6/$24       You can also shop the  clearance and sales ! I picked up some of the mini anti-bacterial products in pumpkin scent for just $0.75. Perfect for stocking stuffers.    Shop via  Ebates to earn 4% cash  back.    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I&#8217;ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Bath &#038; Body: VIP Body Works Bag $20 with $40 Purchase + Other Deals  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Kohl’s is beginning some of their  Black Friday sales online  early. The  Dyson DC33 is just $299  (add to cart to see price). Use coupon code GOBBLE15 to save an additional 15% off. Plus, you can get $15 Kohl’s Cash for every $50 you spend.    Your final price is $254.15 + sales tax shipped AND you will have  $75 in Kohl’s cash . This is the best deal I’ve seen on this vacuum.     Thanks to Source:  Passion for Savings !     Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Dyson DC33 $254.15 Shipped + $75 Kohl’s Cash  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Just a reminder in case  you didn’t see me post about this earlier!    This is a really cool promotion with  SavingStar . You can get $5 back when you spend $15 on Diet Pepsi or Pepsi Max at participating retailers.    First you will need to sign up with  SavingStar .  Enter in the loyalty cards for your participating stores (CVS, Marsh, Kroger in my area!) if you are new to  SavingStar . Then you will go to  this page to activate your offer .  Offer is valid through November 30, 2011.    If you are new to  SavingStar , you can see  How SavingStar Works .     SavingStar: Spend $15 on Diet Pepsi/Max, Get $5  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        There are numerous  Barbie DVD   titles available on  Amazon  for just $4.99.    Here’s a few:       Barbie and The Island Princess    Barbie in the a Mermaid Tale    Barbie in the 12 Dancing Princesses       Many more! Shop the  Barbie DVD   sale today!   
            You can score a deal on a  one year subscription to  Taste of Home  magazine . Purchase this today at  DiscountMags  for just $3.99 when you use coupon code  BARGAINBRIANA  at checkout. You can get up to 4 years at this price.    Create your own Deal: Save up to 20% on almost every order at DiscountMags with coupon code   BARGAINBRIANA   at checkout.     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     One Year Subscription Taste of Home $3.99  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            You can score a deal on a  one year subscription to  Fitness  magazine . Purchase this today at  DiscountMags  for just $3.15 when you use coupon code  BARGAINBRIANA  at checkout. You can get up to 4 years at this price.     This offer expires midnight 11/27/2011.     Create your own Deal: Save up to 20% on almost every order at DiscountMags with coupon code   BARGAINBRIANA   at checkout.     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     One Year Subscription Fitness Magazine $3.15  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            Today only, you can download  Muffin Knight  for Android system for free. Each day  Amazon  offers a  FREE Android App from the Android App Store .    Don’t miss a deal! Download the  FREE Bargain Briana App for Android or iPhones !    Find more freebies on the  Free Samples &amp; Offers page .     Free Android App: Muffin Knight  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            This morning’s news mentioned that Vera Bradley was one of the few Indiana publicly traded companies to post a gain yesterday. There is also a  25% off select  Vera Bradley styles  sale going on right now.     Shop Vera Bradley via Ebates  to earn 3% cash back.    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     25% off Vera Bradley  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            You can score a deal on  US Weekly magazine  today via  Eversave .  Eversave  is offering a one year subscription for just $30 ($0.58/issue). If you are new to Eversave, you will receive a $3 credit upon signing up that you can use to bring your price down to $27 ($0.52/issue).     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     US Weekly Magazine Subscription – as low as $0.52/issue  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        Here’s another  FREE Kindle download  to add to your collection  Twas The Night   ($9.99).   Prices change often on  Amazon  so check to make sure this is still FREE before downloading.  Amazon  has  dropped the price on the Kindle to make way for the new Kindle Fire  AND has a new Lending Library with  Amazon Prime  ( Free One Month Trial !)    This book is available on  Nook for $9.99 .    Remember, you don’t have to have a  Kindle device  to read these novels.  In addition to reading the Kindle books on an actual Kindle, you can download one of the many FREE Kindle apps for a device you already own including:        Kindle for iPad      Kindle for iPhone      Kindle for PC      Kindle for Mac      Kindle for Blackberry        Find thousands of  FREE Kindle books  ready for you to download now.     Free Kindle Download: Twas the Night  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             Shop Lands’ End  now through November 28, 2011 and receive 30% off your entire order and FREE shipping with orders $50 or more. Use coupon code  STUFFING  and pin  5847  to receive your discount.    Want to save loads of money this holiday season? Find the  latest holiday deals  I’ve posted about. You can also check out the  Black Friday Ads ,  Cyber Monday , and my  Holiday Gift Guide . These pages are being updated often.     Lands’ End: 30% off + Free Shipping on Orders $50+  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
            You can score a deal on a  one year subscription to  Consumer Reports  magazine . Purchase this today at  DiscountMags  for just $21.79 when you use coupon code  BARGAINBRIANA  at checkout. You can get up to 1 year at this price.     This offer expires at midnight 11/23/2011.     Create your own Deal: Save up to 20% on almost every order at DiscountMags with coupon code   BARGAINBRIANA   at checkout.     Magazines, especially at these prices, make excellent holiday gifts!     Looking for a different magazine? Find  additional magazine deals .     One Year Subscription Consumer Reports $21.79  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
             Blockbuster  Express is offering a FREE Twilight Saga rental. Use code  TWILIGHTSAGA  through November 30, 2011.     Find a Blockbuster Express near you .     Thanks to Source:  The Freebie Blogger       Blockbuster Express: FREE Twilight Rental  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
                 This game looks like a fun one for the young ones! You can get  Sesame Street: Once Upon A Monster  for just $24.99 (Retail $49.99).       Fun Cooperative Experiences: Every activity is designed to be fun played by oneself, but even more fun with a family member or friend. Drop in/out co-operative gameplay is ideal for parent-child or child-sibling co-play.    Living Storybook Adventure: The game is a guided exploration of a living storybook where players help their monster friends with problems, all while interacting with enchanting and whimsical environments around them.          	   		   	   	  	   		   			 Sesame Street: Once Upon A Monster   						 List Price:  $49.99    									 Price: $24.99   						 Read Reviews   			     		   	   
           Aren’t these bags just lovely? I’m guessing if you are using these pretty  Envirosax reusable shopping bags , you won’t forget to bring them with you shopping! I try to keep several reusable bags in my car so I don’t have extra waste.     Envirosax  are a practical, fashionable gift idea for your Secret Santa, stocking stuffers, teachers, volunteers, etc. The designer reusable bags are super durable and last for years (unlike those flimsy woven cloth bags you buy for $0.99). The designs are stylish and colorful. Each bag comes with it’s own carrying case or roll up snaps, so you can tuck it into your purse. They are washable, water resistant, and the colors won’t fade.    Use them from the grocery store, to the beach, to a picnic in the park. What I love most about these is they roll into a tiny 4″ roll so you can easily store a couple extra bags in your purse. It also makes it easier while in the store as I never know what to do with my pile of other reusable bags while shopping.  Tiny but strong, they can carry up to 44 lbs. While I don’t recommend it, that’s about the weight of a small child. ;)         I have a great giveaway package for you!  However, if you want these now for yourself as gifts, these are available at  Barnes &amp; Noble .  Save 30% on your purchase with coupon code  C9Y8K3H  at checkout .    The Envirosax prize package includes nine bags plus two goodies (Retail $120):       A set of three  Oasis bags     A set of three  Origami bags     One 100%  organic hemp bag     One  three-pocket SlingSax  with adjustable straps    One  Minisax , perfect for a snack    A  stainless steel BPA-free water bottle     A  shower timer  to help you conserve water        How to Win?       Prize:  The Envirosax prize package listed above.    You can enter up to 4 times with the following methods:    1. Leave a comment: Do you use reusable bags?     **If you are reading in an email or a feed reader, you must click over to enter this giveaway. Entries via email are not accepted.     2. Subscribe to my  FREE newsletter . You must confirm your email for a valid entry. If you are already a subscriber, leave a comment letting me know you are already getting the bargains in your inbox!    3.  Become a Facebook Liker of  Envirosax  and  Bargain Briana .    4. Tweet the Following on Twitter:     Enter to win a $120 @Envirosax Giveaway Pack via @bargainbriana #wingiveaways  http://bit.ly/rxyHxS       Please leave a comment for each additional entry.      Giveaway ends on Tuesday, November 29, 2011 at 3 p.m. EST.    Winner will be chosen by random. Be sure  bargainbriana@gmail.com  is in your safe sender list as you don’t want to miss the email if you are the chosen winner. U.S. Entries only. Alternate entry: Mail a postcard with the giveaway you are entering along with your name, address, and  email  to PO Box 14, Tipton, IN 46072.    **Please note: The companies have 6-8 weeks to ship prizes.       This giveaway was sponsored as part of the Win Giveaways Holiday Giveaway Bash. This Post was written by me and was not edited by the sponsor. Find a static page of the  giveaways you can enter here . Read more on my  Disclosure Policy . Find more information on the terms for this giveaway on the  Win Giveaways Facebook page .     You have more chances to win by entering on the following blogs:     (Keep track of which giveaways you have entered easily with  this Checklist  (PDF)!)        $5 Dinners      Balancing Beauty and Bedlam      Bargain Babe      Frugal Coupon Living      Mommies with Style      Moms Need to Know      Passion for Savings      Saving Cents with Sense      Savings Lifestyle      Southern Savers      Stretching a Buck        Want to win a $250  Amazon .com gift card? Be sure to enter my  $250 Amazon.com gift card Holiday Giveaway ! Check back throughout the week for more  Giveaways !  Good Luck!      Envirosax Designer Reusable Shopping Bags Giveaway #WinGiveaways  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
        Oh, Sofia would love these as a stocking stuffing! Today on  No More Rack  there is a FREE set of Hello Kitty Hair Clips, just $2 shipped.     No More Rack  is also offering a Toy Story 3 Puzzle for 4.    Flat rate shipping of $2 applies. This is valid for U.S. addresses only.    Every week day at noon (EST),  No More Rack  lists 8 super hot deals for just one day! Many of the popular deals will go very fast. However, lately, it seems to be slowing down and more deals are available longer. You will want to sign up at  No More Rack  now so you will ready when you find a deal you want.    You can also get a $10 off $20 purchase code off your first order with  No More Rack . Shipping is a flat $2 per item.     Here’s How:          Sign up with No More Rack .    You should see code  P1070  when you sign up. This is the code you will need to use your $10 credit.    After registering, go to the Your Profile&gt;Redeem a Gift Card&gt;Enter code P1070&gt;Click Redeem.    Your $10 credit should now be in your account.       Enjoy saving with  No More Rack ! You will note that it may take a little while to ship NoMoreRack items but my orders have always arrived.     Hello Kitty Hair Clips $2 Shipped; Toy Story Puzzle $6  is a post from  BargainBriana .     Check out this online and in-store  Black Friday Deals !          
       As you might know if you’re a keen-eyed Bitterwalleteer, tomorrow is Black Friday, the day when tired Americans recover from a day of Thanksgiving self-stuffing by getting out of bed early and fighting each other for reduced stuff in all the shops. Sounds GREAT!    Helpfully, the cult of Black Friday has crept across the Atlantic and, a bit like over-elaborate ‘prom nights’, it looks like it could be here to stay. A whole host of retailers and etailers are promising price-slashing mayhem tomorrow and over the weekend, and Currys and PC World have  already kicked off a 100-hour sale . Helpfully, thanks to our wonderful friends at HotUKDeals, you can keep abreast of the best of the bargains by  consulting their Black Friday guide .    We’ll bring you a round-up of the very best of Black Friday’s offerings tomorrow, but why not arm yourself with information over at HUKD now? Fail to prepare, prepare to fail and all that…       
    Here’s Samsung, STICKING IT to Apple and the fanboys, showing a bunch of them queuing up for a stupid iPhone while nearby, a delightful young lady caresses her Samsung Galaxy II. The suggestion is that it’s a far superior phone and that the LONG QUEUE of wannabe iPhone users are all wrong, even though there’s loads of them and they’ve probably be queuing all night.    It’s a bit far-fetched, for no other reason than the fact that a group of iPhone fanboys would never approach and speak to an attractive woman.                   
    Have you ever looked at a coffee house and thought that the simple process of paying for a drink and getting a drink in return was just too fiddly? Well, thank GOD Starbucks have come up with a payment app for the iPhone which is coming to the UK.    It’s a one-touch iOS payment thing and will  hit  these shores from the 5th of January next year. You will be able to link your Starbucks card with your app using the on-screen barcode, you can still get freebies and the like.         Since it got a release in the USA earlier this year, it’s become the fastest way to pay for coffee. Alas, it hasn’t made the process of actually making a cup of coffee any faster, but y’know, what can you do?    Apparently, one in five Starbucks customers in the UK pay for their coffee with their Starbucks card, so will they be keen to adopt this new system instead? No word on an Android app as yet, so we’ll have to wait and see. Either way, technology and coffee. Hurray for that or something.       
       Dixons Retail have posted an increase in losses, but hey, they’re happy and everything’s groovy so shut up okay?    Last year’s annual losses of £6.9m have become £25.3m but they say it’ll all be okay because they’re improving their customer service and that’s going to keep us all going back into their loss-making establishments. They say that as well as refitting 250 of their stores, Dixons, Currys and PC World are focussing on offering more specialist advice to us, the average thick-headed punters.    It might be working – a survey quoted by the BBC says that 71% of customers would now be highly likely to recommend the store, compared with 43% a year ago. CEO John Browett said: “In what remains a challenging environment, the pace and impact of improvements in our operating model is driving outperformance versus our competitors and market share gains.”    Falls in same-store sales from 7% to 3% from quarter to quarter suggests that they could be turning things around. Throw in the troubles of Best Buy and Comet, and the chance that Dixons could grow bigger and stronger again is a possibility.    Or is it? What do YOU LOT reckon?       
    Imagine this. You go over to Argentina and crisp makers Lay’s are so willing to show everyone what goes into their crisps, that they’ve made a vending machine that makes them for you fresh, before your very eyes. There, they show off that the only thing that goes into their product is potatoes, vegetable oil and a pinch of salt.    You activate the machine by popping a potato in, then, you watch it get washed, peeled, cut, cooked, salted and bagged up, waiting for you to pluck them out and scoff them. Watch.                Lay’s machine – Debut (English txt)  from  Castro Innovation  on  Vimeo .    Alas, this video is still in the realms of fantasy and only imitates the who process, but someone really ought to make one of these in real life. OR WE’LL HAVE TO CUT SOMEONE.    [ shortlist ]       
    It’s almost December, it’s cold, many people may be looking forward to a sparse Chrsitmas this year. What better time for Energy and Climate Change Secretary Chris Huhne to announce that the Government’s Green Deal initiative will be loading a massive £280 on to the average bill by 2020.    At present, the average household pays £89 a year on their bills to support the government’s green energy campaign, but this amount is set to rise every year until it hits £280 in 2020. The money will be used to provide around £8 billion a year towards the £200 billion cost of new wind farms, nuclear power stations, a new pylon network and fitting more solar panels. But it’s not all bad news. The Government defended the rises saying they will be counteracted by other government policies to help people reduce the amount of energy they use. The Department of Energy and Climate Change has confirmed the cost of the various Governmental Green Deal policies in this handy diagram.         The diagram shows that average householders who undertake all of the changes to behaviour assumed, including installing smart meters and loft insulation, will actually save money on their energy bills, and these savings, by 2020, will amount to £373. Note that this is not a discount from energy bills, but is a hypothetical saving on energy costs. That the Government can then add their ‘green tax’ to so that bills are up to £94 a year cheaper.    Chris Huhne said, yesterday “We will secure our energy at the lowest cost: in the short term by promoting competition; in the medium term by insulating our homes and in the long term by steering us away from excessive reliance on fossil fuels and on to clean, green and secure energy.”    However, with people already struggling with rising energy bills most households are unlikely to be happy about paying more today in order to prevent possible rises in the future. And what about people who are unable to adopt all the green measures? Homeowners without attics to insulate or cavity walls will definitely see increased bills owing to Government levies.    Thomas Lyon, energy expert at uSwitch.com said “The big question is over whether the costs are more certain than the benefits, as the success of many of these policies will rely on consumers changing their behaviour or taking up the new options that will be made available to them … The fact is that the UK is on the brink of an affordability crisis when it comes to household energy and it will be difficult for consumers if they have to carry the cost of these policies before seeing the benefit.”    The energy secretary also announced 14 million homes could be fitted with insulation and other energy-saving measures, and householders will be able to take out loans of up to £10,000 over a 25-year term.    However, our consumer friends Which! ares warning consumers that this not an energy efficiency grant- the money comes in the form of a loan and anyone taking up the Green Deal will be expected to pay interest.    “It’s difficult to see how hard-pressed homeowners will have confidence in how the Green Deal might work for them if the suggested savings are initially based on averages rather than on their personal energy use,” said Richard Lloyd, executive director at Which!     Simplification?     While it is unlikely Governmental levies will be separately disclosed on energy bills, at least one Energy company is trying to simplify matters. British Gas announced today that all of its tariffs will be scrapped to be replaced with just two options – fixed and variable. Changes will be implemented today for new customers and variable customers but existing fixed customers will run to the end of their current term, and then move onto the new tariff.    British Gas MD Phil Bentley admitted that some bills would go up, as in the past British Gas had offered cheap deals that were unsustainable and were loss making for the company, who made a profit of £270m in 2011. British Gas increased gas prices by 18pc and electricity prices by 16pc over the summer, costing customers an extra £200 a year.    Mr Bentley said that the company had been forced to charge “honest customers” more to fund the cheaper offers. So now everyone pays the higher price. Good job BG.       
       Why would you bother going outdoors into the fierce winds, dark fogs and hot rain just to buy yourself a brand new game, when you can just as easily get it sent down an internet pipe straight into the bosom of your home?    Exactly – it makes no sense whatsoever. It’s because of that actual outdoor grimness that we’re parping a celebratory trumpet in the direction of Steam, online purveyors of downloadable games. They’ve got a sale on at the moment and as far as we’re concerned, top of its pops is Portal 2 for the PC –  you can get it for only £6.79  RIGHT NOW. And if you don’t have its predecessor, they come as a bundled pair for just £7.81.     AND THERE’S MORE…!     *  Sandisk Sansa Clip 8GB mp3 player –  only £29.99 .    *  Panasonic DMP-BD45 Blu-ray player – down from £129.00  to just £55.20 delivered .    *  Big  savings on ye olde worlde stuffe  from Past Times.    *  F1 2010 for the PS3 and Xbox 360 –  only £9.99 delivered.     *  Life – 10 hours of BBC natural history mayhem  on Blu-ray for £11.69.     *  Trauma Centre: New Blood for the Nintendo Wii –  only £3.99.      All that and MORE can be found over at HotUKDeals…        
       HMV are not drowning, but they’re doing a lot of waving at the moment. The beleaguered ‘entertainment retailer’ has recently tried to revamp their stores, removing loads of non-selling CDs and filling the space with gadgets and accessories instead.    Now, they’re having a bash at an on-demand film service in an attempt to rake in some cash and not end up on the scrapheap.    They’ve teamed up with FilmFlex, which it says here is a video-on-demand rental service joint venture between Sony Pictures Television and The Walt Disney Company, and they’ve come up with hmvon-demand. Which looks GREAT. We’re sure they’ll thrive in what is a relatively niche but already overcrowded marketplace (hello to LoveFilm, BlinkBox, YouTube and the oncoming Netflix).    HMV’s offering will be initially available via PCs, with plans to roll it out to other digital devices in the offing. They are also mumbling some stuff about downloading-to-own and, of course, ‘cloud-based storage’    What do you reckon everyone – six months?    [ Guardian ]       
       If you’re a worker in an Arcadia store, you’re probably not having the best of days. That’ll be mainly because your company’s owner, Sir Philip Green has just announced that he’ll be closing down about 260 stores over the next three years. You all have a good day now.    Green has revealed the store closures through the national media along with a 38% drop in full year profits in the year to August. Arcadia, who include Top Shop, BhS, Burton, Dorothy Perkins and Miss Selfridge, still managed to make a fairly decent profit of £133m, but it’ll be curtains for some stores once their leases expire over the next three years.    Green, who is a government adviser and notorious tax scamp, is blaming the drop in profits on the warm autumn weather. You remember, when no one needed any clothes because we were all running around naked in the ‘autumn heat’.    The Arcadia boss said: “Trading conditions remain extremely challenging, with style, quality and value at the top of our agenda and more important than ever. Additionally, the warmest October and November on record have made autumn trading much tougher.” Yeah, but the figures go up until August. You dick.       
    As you may know, it’s Black Friday in the USA in a couple of days, the post-Thanksgiving festival of consumerism, where big stores open up early and offer massive discounts to turkey-stuffed shoppers (Amazon in the UK are running  a week-long version of it right now ).    Need to know more about Black Friday, in a soberly-presented capsule of audio-visual information? Don’t watch this then – it’s the latest batshit-mental outpouring from the Taiwanese animationews geniuses at NMA TV. Now Black Friday doesn’t look like fun for anyone…                   
    Here at Bitterwallet, we’re always on the lookout for enormous boons, and here comes an enormous boom right now if you’re a fan of increased debit and credit card security (and let’s face it, who isn’t?).    It’s the newest technology in the aforementioned cards, and is currently sweeping the Far East, with the rest of the world expected to follow at an appropriate time. The card comes equipped with its own dongle (yes, dongle!) and its own e-paper display, on which a security PIN is displayed when a button is pressed on the back of the card.    It’s similar to those annoying number-generating gizmos that we have to carry around with us if we ever want to do any online banking while on the move. But hopefully it should be far less annoying. The batteries in them last for three years, and we predict they’ll hit the UK on 10th May 2012. Total guess – we could be wrong.                [ Red Ferret ]       
         If you have a new iPhone 4S, you could well be having a bit of bother with it. It would appear that some users have noticed that it isn’t really working as a phone and that there’s repeated SIM card failures.    This is according to customer  help forums on the Apple website . Kinda flies in the face of those who say Apple products ‘just work’.    The SIM problem seems to be affecting those running the new iOS 5.01 on the iPhone 4S, leaving them staring at an error messages saying “invalid SIM”.    Customers who have full bars are not able to connect to calls or receive texts, leaving one disgruntled customer feeling like they’d “purchased an ipod”.    Away from that, other customers are reporting ongoing issues with battery drain and Wi-Fi connections not working as they should. One user on the help forum  writes :    “So far I have had my iPhone 4S for 2 weeks and it worked flawlessly before the 5.0.1. After the update the signal was unstable, battery drain [an] issue, [it has become] difficult to place call (call failed), and gives me invalid SIM every few hours. I’ll be using  my old iPhone 4, fortunately I didn’t update it with 5.0.1. I hope Apple come out with a better update fix ASAP.”    The Genius Bar might be a little busy over the next few weeks.       
     If driving didn’t make you angry enough, the latest annual figures on the cost of motoring will make your knuckles whiten with anger. The increase in the costs of driving is now at almost three-times the rate of inflation, which is just great if you rely on your car to, y’know,  live .    Now, the average annual cost is around the £6,500 mark, or, if you prefer, around £129 per week or 55.74 pence per mile. That’s an average of £1,556 more, per year, than motorists where paying in 2007.    The Telegraph  reports  that, when vehicle depreciation and finance are excluded, day-to-day running costs are also up by 11.1pc to £2,743. Of course, the biggest hike is in fuel costs which have increased by £160 annually since 2010.    Petrol is up from 118.4p/l to 134.78p/l and diesel has shot up from 122p/l to 140.49p/l. To rub salt in the wound, insurance costs have also seen a sharp rise, climbing up 14.4pc to an average of £551.    Adrian Tink from the RAC says: “This year’s index highlights the tough conditions being faced by Britain’s motorists. With the annual cost of motoring approaching £7,000 the price burden of car ownership is hitting drivers hard. The increase of almost three times the rate of inflation is crippling drivers’ wallets and something needs to be done to stem the tide.”    “With fuel prices continuing to be the biggest single running cost, UK drivers want action from the Government”       
       Hola amigos! It is I, Len Dastard – El Bastardo, Murderer of Dreams. For those of you who do not know, I am a full time Litigation Executive and imaginary retired Mexican wrestler. You doubt my story niños? You are brave.       For our readers that have not been following this story, we brought you  this news  in July which television streaming website  TVCatchup   considered themselves to be victorious in a long running legal battle with UK broadcasters ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5.    It was the broadcasters claim that TVCatchup were using material that they did not own the rights to. The response from TVCatchup was that they were only making temporary copies (then relaying free to air TV channels to users via computers and smartphones) of this material and that was a lawful use. In a recent ruling in the High Court, Mr Justice Floyd affirmed his earlier provisional ruling that the reproduction by the the creation of “rolling copies” of broadcasts in TVCatchups “memory buffers” and then on its members screens did not amount to a reproduction or copy of the broadcasts and TVCatchup.    It might seem quite strange but UK copyright laws do not make “temporary copies” unlawful if the are “transient or incidental” to the whole works and are made in order to ensure the programme is technically broadcast with “no independent significance”.  Mr Justice Floyd based his provisional ruling in July on the fact that the section of stored video was approximately 30 to 40 seconds long.    The only outstanding question in which Mr Justice Floyd thought required further clarification from the European Courts of Justice was in relation to whether there has been a “communication to the public” which is in contravention to UK copyright laws. It is likely to be some time before this is all dealt with.     Got any issues that you would like Len Dastard to consider? Get in touch – hello@bitterwallet.com        
      Q:  What does Groupon, purveyor of emails full of temptingly cheap things you never knew you wanted have in common with Tulisa, newest and youngest judge on the X factor?  A:  Of course it’s not that they are both cheap*, it’s because they have both been accused of malpractice by the Advertising Standards Agency (ASA). Tulisa’s crime is to wave her crappy Female Boss tattoo at the cameras each week, when she has only gone and launched a new perfume named after her own arm. Groupon, on the other hand (or arm) has been found guilty of a worse crime- pressuring people to have bigger boobs. It’s a tough job…    The culpable email in question, offering discounted cosmetic surgery, including breast enlargement, has been banned by the ASA for “pressuring” consumers into hurriedly making potentially life-changing decisions in just a few hours. The terms of the deal, as for many Groupons, offered offered discounts of well over 50% on operations at a clinic in Manchester if customers booked before midnight on the day the deal was sent out. The deal was sent out in May with surgery to take place by 28 November.    The ASA acted after receiving a complaint from a member of the public and on from the Independent Healthcare Advisory Service, claiming the Groupon deal was irresponsible “because it encouraged recipients to hurry into a decision to purchase cosmetic surgery”.    The ASA pointed out that the marketing and ethical code run by the appropriately monikered British Association for Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons (BAAPS) prohibited ads that offered discounts linked to a deadline date for booking appointments “or other date-linked incentives”. The practice also goes against the good practice guide of the General Medical Council.    The ASA went on to say that the “very limited time in which consumers had to buy the voucher pressured consumers into making a decision to (to all intents and purposes) purchase cosmetic surgery”.    “We considered that the decision to undergo physically invasive procedures was one that required substantial consideration,” said the ASA. “We noted consumers only had 24 hours in which to buy the voucher and because of that, we considered that consumers buying the voucher would have already financially and mentally committed themselves to going ahead with a procedure.”    This is not the first time Groupon have been in the news this week. A poor baker in Reading offered a deal to sell cupcakes for £6.50 a box, generating a loss of £2.50 per box. She was inundated with over 8,500 orders, which then wiped out her profits for the year. Of course, no-one made her offer the deal, but she still feels aggrieved that her marketing worked so well.    But leaving cakes aside and going back to the baps, the ASA concluded that the plastic surgery email promotion was irresponsible and banned the ad a mere six months after it had been and gone. The ASA also banned a similar type of ad, one that referred to an ‘easy’ way to bigger breasts commissioned by the Harley Medical Centre back  in 2007. The advertiser commented that many women felt “renewed confidence and self-esteem after cosmetic enhancement” and that there was not any implication that only big breasts could make someone happy. We beg to differ…    *allegedly       
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [7:00am ET]  Good morning.     Holiday rally coming? Some of us think so.     http://caracommunity.com/content/bill-caras-blog-nov-23-2011#comment-100741     As for me, I’ll just be relieved to find clear results from the upcoming double colonoscopy scheduled for Dec. 5. It would be nice to know that my recent gastro issues are strictly market related.    While most of you are enjoying turkey dinner today – Happy Thanksgiving America -- the equity market in Europe seems to be showing some relief from what has been a miserable November.     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [8:00am ET]  Good morning, Geoff here.    Yesterday, the Commerce department revised the 3rd Quarter GDP growth estimate from 2.5% to 2.0% when the street was expecting a revision down to 2.3%. This was disappointing news following weeks of pretty good economic reports and traders are considering that the Fed may begin a new round of stimulus to offset any future economic slowdown.     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [9:10am ET]  Good morning, Geoff here.     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [7:00am ET]  Good morning.     Red skies in the morning. Incoming. Prepare for battle.         Just as prices for equities, commodities and precious metals are poised to break support levels, crashing lower, we are forced to make decisions, which means we have to think clearly.    Today, why not think Microsoft, a Cara 100 company I reviewed in this weekend’s Week In Review? Market conditions are such today that buying opportunities will come to those who are prepared. Here are my notes from the WIR.     read more     
    [8:00pm ET Sunday]  The take-over of the governments of Italy and Greece by un-elected persons representing banking interests, most of which are directed by names like Rockefeller and Rothschild with public dealings via Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan Chase, may have reached a tipping point in the push by elitists to control the public purse-strings of Western Europe and America.     In that case, when are we to be offered cake?     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [7:00am ET]  Good morning, Geoff here.    Yesterday was another volatile day in the markets with Europe being the reason for the S&amp;P 500 to lose 21 points or 1.7%. As rates rise in Italy and Spain, traders are selling those bonds and other assets not wanting the risk. The European situation is leading to global recession fears and commodity markets sold off yesterday as well. We witnessed a flight to safety trade as traders moved out of risk assets and into the US dollar and US Treasury bonds.     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [7:00am ET]  Good morning, Geoff here.    Yesterday was a volatile day of trading in the US.  We opened lower, rallied briefly into positive on the day and then sold off hard in the last hour with the S&amp;P 500 dropping a total of 21 points on the day.     read more     
     CTA Trading Desk Morning Report   [7:35am ET]  Good morning, Geoff here.    We experienced a small rally yesterday, but nothing to write home about. Basically, no bad news coming from Europe so the 3 positive US economic reports lifted the market. Retail sales and the Empire State Manufacturing survey were positive while PPI showed that inflation was momentarily negative due to a drop in energy costs in October.     read more     
                     Kohl’s is offering a  $10 mail in rebate  on the following appliances BUT you must purchase them on 11/25.  So this deal goes live at midnight tonight.  Buy yours early because this deal sold out very early last year. You can purchase two of these appliances per model number per household.    Here are the appliances includes in the rebate:        Crock-Pot 5-qt. Programmable Slowcooker  $5.99 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code. (out of stock now but may come back in stock for the sale, we can hope)           Black &amp; Decker Quesadilla Maker  $5.99 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.           Bella Kitchen Rotating Waffle Maker  $5.99 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.          P resto Cool Touch Electric Griddle  $5.99 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.           Food Network™ 3-Cup Mini Food Processor &amp; Chopper   $8.39 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.           Hamilton Beach® Hand Mixer  $8.39 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.           Toastmaster® Toaster Oven  $8.39 after  $10 MIR  and 20% off CON20HH4 coupon code.       Spend $50 and get $15 back in Kohl’s cash and free shipping on your order.  You can try “reserving” these by adding them to your cart.  But you must complete the purchase on 11/25 or it won’t qualify for the rebate.    
    Here is a quick round up of some deals available at Amazon right now:            Pyrex 6022369 Storage 14-Piece Round Set, Clear with Blue Lids   $12.49            Crayola Glow Station Day &amp; Night   $14.99            The Bourne Trilogy (The Bourne Identity / The Bourne Supremacy / The Bourne Ultimatum) [Blu-ray]   $20.49            Circulon Infinite Hard Anodized Nonstick 10-Piece Cookware Set   $149.99    This ship free qith Amazon prime or with a $25 purchase using Super Saver Shipping.    
           I just wanted to stop and wish you a very happy Thanksgiving! Today I am thankful for my family, my friends and you guys! You make deal hunting totally FUN for me and I truly appreciate each and every one of you who stops by this blog to check out my daily finds!    I truly intended to take the day off today but there were so many screaming deals just on the first half of the day. It is incredible! but now my husband has given me a minute to wrap this party up at least until after Thanksgiving dinner. What can I say? I do drive a hard bargain!    So, I am taking the time to enjoy Thanksgiving dinner in the company of family and I hope you are all doing the same. I will see you back here after the turkey-induced coma wears off enough for me to type up semi-coherent posts, lol!    Happy Eatings!    
           Here is an  All detergent printable coupon  I have not seen in a while.  Print this  All detergent printable coupon  to save $1 off one bottle.  I see this often on sale for $3.99 per bottle.    Enjoy!    
           This is a great deal on Snow Boots for kids from Lands End right now.  The  Snow Flurry Boots are on sale for $25  each (reg $44.50).  But use the coupon code “ DRUMSTICK ” and the pin “ 1121 ” to get 30% off and free shipping.  These boots include  400-grams of Thermolite® insulation.  This is available for boys and girls in lots of sizes.    Thanks Jennifer!    
           You can get a superb deal on this KitchenAid Classic Plus 4.5-qt. Stand Mixer from Kohl’s right now. You can get it doe as low as $90 after sale, coupon discount, Kohl’s Cash and rebate. Yeah guys! you have to worm it to get the steal! but it’s worth it!       Add the  KitchenAid Classic Plus 4.5-qt. Stand Mixer  to cart for $179          Then use the code   CON20HH4   and you pay $143.99 (Add an extra item to make your total above $150 and get $45 Kohls cash back, otherwise you only get $30) or use the code  GOBBLE15  and you pay $152.99          To make this even better Kohl’s is offering $15 in Kohl’s cash for every $50 you spend. So on this purchase you will earn $45 in Kohl’s cash to spend on a future purchase.          This item ships FREE.          Then submit your receipt for this  $20 mail in rebate  (good on purchases 11/23-11/25)       This makes your net cost just $87.99 ($152.99 paid online less $45 Kohl’s Cash back less $20 back by mail in rebate).    Thanks  Couponing to Disney !    
           You can grab the video game  LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7   for $34.99 right now. This ships free with Amazon Super Saver Shipping. This is as low as I have see the game on its own and have been been keeping my eyes open for this one because I have been waiting to buy it for my sons.    
           Right now you can get original (as seen on TV) My Pillow Pets pillows for as low as $10.39 on Amazon.  This is what is available:     My Pillow Pets Lavender Unicorn 18″   $10.39     My Pillow Pets Buzzy Bumble Bee 18″   $10.39     My Pillow Pets Miss Lady Bug 18″   %10.80     My Pillow Pets Tardy Turtle – Large (Green)   $11    these 18″ pillows are the standard ize you will find in stores.  These ship free with Amazon prime or with a $25 purchase using super saver shipping.    Thanks  Mashup Mom !    
           Right now you can get the  Kinect Sensor with Kinect Adventures and Gunstringer Token Code   for $99.99 Shipped. This is normally $149.  This includes “Kinect Adventures!” and token codes for downloadable versions of “Gunstringer” and “Fruit Ninja Kinect.”    Note that this is an Amazon deals and prices change without notice.    
           You can get this  Harry Potter: The Complete 8-Film Collection   for $39.99. This includes ALL films in DVD format.    
           Today only (11/24)  Plum District is offering a $10 off coupon code .  Just add the promo code turkey10 at checkout to get $10 off Plumd District deals.  It excludes plum steals.  you can use this code to get two Disnet princess or Cars Story Books for $12.  Plus this deal includes shipping so that it all you will pay.    Choose two Disney Princess- or Cars-themed storybooks: either My Adventures with Disney Cars and My Adventures with Disney/Pixar Cars 2 or My Adventures with Disney Princess Collection and My Adventures with Disney Princess Collection 2 and Identity Direct will personalize these pages with your child’s name, birthday, neighborhood and friends! How magical for your little one!    
           You can grab a  $20 LeapFrog App Center Download Card for just $13.99  on Amazon.  It ships free with Amazon prime or with a $25 purchase using Super Saver shipping.  This works with Leapfrog Leapster explorer or Leappad.    
           This is the stuff of little princesses’ dreams!  Right now you can get the  Disney Princess Ultimate Doll Collection  for $39.99 shipped form Target.  Gift set includes all 7 Disney Princess dolls: Cinderella, Belle, Sleeping Beauty, Ariel, Snow White, Jasmine and Tiana, exclusive to this collection.    
           You can get the DC25 for $213 after Kohl’s Cash.    I know some of you missed out on the  hot Dyson deal I shared  a couple of weeks ago. Well, there is a BETTER deal available right now.       Add the  Dyson DC25 Multi Floor Upright Vacuum  to your cart and the price drops down to $379 from $549          Then use the code   CON20HH4   and you pay $303.99. or  GOBBLE15  and you pay $322.99          To make this even better Kohl’s is offering $15 in Kohl’s cash for every $50 you spend. So on this purchase you will earn $90 in Kohl’s cash to spend on a future purchase.          This item ships FREE.       That brings the net cost of the vacuum as low as $213.  I love it! who needs to get up early on Black Friday when you can shop it all online in your PJs!    As an alternative  Woot has a refurbished DC24 for $204 shipped .    Thanks,  Frugal Coupon Living !    
           You can get  Sonic Generations for 3DS  for just $22.49 right now from Toys R Us.  This is more than $40 elsewhere.  Plus it ships free! you can’t beat that       
           Here is another Target Black Friday Deal available right now.  You can get this  Xbox 360 4GB Console for $139 . This ships free and it includes:    Xbox 360 4GB S Console   Xbox 360 Black Wireless Controller   Xbox 360 Composite A/V cable (standard definition)   One Month Xbox LIVE Gold Membership   1 year limited warranty on console    
           Target has slashed the price of this  Nikon L105 camera by 50% .  It is currently on sale for $99 and it ships free.    Product Description:        Megapixels:  12.1 Megapixels     Camera Features:  Optical Image Stabilization, D-Lighting, Face Detection Technology, Auto Focus, 720p HD Movie Recording, Auto Scene Selector     Display Features:  Anti-Glare Coating, Brightness Adjustment, Easy-to-Read Menu System, QVGA, Color TFT LCD Screen, Battery Level Indicator       Thanks  Swaggrabber !    
           If you love Apple products (like I do) and keep an eye out for sales on them (which never happen), then you know getting 9% off on these products is an AWESOME deal!  The price of the iPad 2s has been stuck at $499.99 since they came out.  But right now you can get an  Apple® – iPad® 2 with Wi-Fi – 16GB  in Black or White for $454.99. This also ships FREE.    Just search for items  1945531  for black or  2339322  for white.    
           Amazon is offering a  Free $2 credit good on any MP3 purchase .  Just enter the code STUDYBRK  on this page  and your credit will be added to your account.    You can use this credit to get the following albums currently on sale for $4.99 for just $2.99:     Femme Fatale       Loud [Explicit] [+video] [+digital booklet]       Sweeter [+Digital Booklet]       So Beautiful Or So What [+Video] [+Digital Booklet]       Paper Airplane [+Digital Booklet]      Or you can keep an eye on the  Music Lightening Deals that Amazon  is offering and get an even better deal on those.    
           If you are in the market for a Keurig brewer I have a good deal for you.       Add the  Keurig Elite brewer  and the price drops down to $107.99.          Then use the code   CON20HH4   and you pay $86.39. or  GOBBLE15  and you pay $91.79          You will get $15 in Kohl’s cash back.  Your net cost in the best case would be $71.39       This is an incredible price for the Elite model.    
           This Black Friday Target deal is available for purchase online right now.  Get a free  $40 Target Gift Card when you buy a 8gb iPod Touch for $195 .    
           This Black Friday WAlmart deal is available for purchase right now.  You can buy the  Nintendo Wii in Blue for $99.96  which is the same price available in stores for Black friday at Walmart.    
           Hurry to the  K Mart website where the Leappad Explorer is in stock right now .  Available in both green and pink.  This won’t last.  Use the code  K5OFF50TOYS12  to get $5 off your order. That makes your total $94.99 and it ships free when you choose standard shipping.  Thanks Kristi!    UPDATE: This also shows as  in stock on the Sams Club website  and as an  upcoming deal on Best Buy .    
           Target just made available a new Target coupon code for 25% off any apparel item.  You can use this code in the daily deal available and grab two pairs of jeans for $12 shipped:       Just add two  Mossimo Supply Co. Juniors Bootcut Jean – Medium Tint Wash  for $16 and on sale BOGO FREE.  Sizes available 1-17.          Use the code  TGTBE2S8  to get 25% off one item          That brings your total down to $12 for both pairs of jeans and they ship free!       This code is only available through 9PM EST today 11/23.    
       This is sold out already, but you can get the DC25 for $233 after Kohl’s Cash.    I know some of you missed out on the  hot Dyson deal I shared  a couple of weeks ago.  Well, there is a BETTER deal available right now.       Add the  Dyson DC33 Multi Floor Upright Vacuum  to your cart and the price drops down to $299.          Then use the coupon code  GOBBLE15  to get 15% off your purchase. This brings the total down to $254.99.          To make this even better Kohl’s is offering $15 in Kohl’s cash for every $50 you spend. So on this purchase you will earn $75 in Kohl’s cash to spend on a future purchase.          This item ships FREE.       That brings the net cost of the vacuum to $179.  That’s $20 less than the previous deal I shared, WOW!    Thanks,  Bargain Briana !    
         It's almost here: Black Friday is in two days, and holiday shopping is about to get serious. We at Consumer Reports have been working feverishly to provide you with the best advice on how to survive and even thrive on Black Friday and beyond.       Below are links to all the stories we ran this season (in no particular order): advice on getting deals on electronics, cars, home appliances, and more; researching before you shop; dealing with return policies; and lots more. Enjoy Thanksgiving knowing that you'll be as prepared as you can get!          Store opening hours for Black Friday       Black Friday 2011: 12 tips for getting the best deals       Small Business Saturday looks to compete with Black Friday and Cyber Monday     	  5 Tips to keeping holiday spending in check       Black Friday: Big appliance buys at the big box stores     	  Best GPS deals for 2011 Black Friday--Your guide to navigating doorbusters    	  Best new car deals for Black Friday and Thanksgiving weekend    	  7 tips for organized and hassle-free holiday shopping     	  Black Friday 2011: 10 best TV deals     	  Navigon launches 2.0 navigation app, offers Black Friday-style discount     	  Black Friday: There are good buys and there are CR Best Buys    	  Black Friday prices not always lowest for our recommended models    	  5 steps to successful product returns when faced with strict policies    	  Black Friday TVs: Walmart, Target, Best Buy get down low    	  Appliance retailers offer early Black Friday deals     	  Black Friday TV prices: How low will they go?     	  Amazon Black Friday deals start today     	    
         Last holiday season, 45 percent of shoppers who made a budget exceeded it, according to our holiday poll, and 5 percent went over budget&mdash;by a lot. This year, 44 percent of shoppers say getting a good deal is more important than it was last year, and a third say they will be spending less than they did last year.       &#8220;As we approach the 2011 winter holidays - the fourth straight season set against a backdrop of economic uncertainly - Americans remain fixated on finances: their own and that of the nation,&#8221; said Tod Marks, Consumer Reports senior editor and resident shopping expert. &#8220;So it&#8217;s not surprising that people are even more intent on watching their dollars, shopping on a set budget and, of course, bargain-hunting.&#8221;        Tips to help you stay on budget this holiday season:        1. Pay with cash    Shoppers who use credit cards spend more on holiday gifts than those who don't, we've found time and again in our shopper surveys. Stores don't have to pay a transaction fee for cash purchases, as they do with debit and credit cards, so you might be able to get a discount if you pay with cash, particularly on big-ticket items. Lord & Taylor still accepts personal checks in its branches, and if layaway appeals to you, Kmart, Sears, and Walmart have programs.        2. Use plastic with care    Try to resist the temptation to charge more than you can afford or you'll be nursing a debt hangover long after the holidays are over. Only take the bait for a store credit card and its one-time extra savings if you're buying something expensive and know you can pay the balance on time and in full. Store credit cards typically carry interest rates of 20 percent or higher. To avoid lowering your credit score, don't apply for more than one store card in a season.       3. Nix the warranty    Our years of surveying consumers have confirmed that extended warranties for most electronics and household appliances aren't worth the money. Those items usually don't break during their warranty period, and if they do, the average cost of repair isn't much more than the cost of an average warranty. And extended warranties often have loopholes, such as not covering problems caused by wear and tear. However, a plan that covers theft or accidental damage might be worth considering for a laptop, netbook, or tablet you'll use on the go. Also know that some credit-card providers&#8212;notably American Express&#8212;offer extended warranty protection on products purchased with the card.        4. Ship for free    Online shoppers can stay on budget by taking advantage of free shipping offers, many of which are listed at  FreeShipping.org . The site also sponsors Free Shipping Day, Dec. 16, one of the last opportunities for online shoppers to get free shipping from popular retailers for delivery by Dec. 24. Merchants who have signed on include the Apple Online Store, Bed Bath & Beyond, Cabela's, eBags, Kohl's, Lands' End, REI, Zales, and Ghirardelli and Godiva chocolatiers.       5. Haggle    We've said it before, not enough people try their hand at haggling. In one of our recent surveys, shoppers who said they haggled at walk-in stores saved an average of $82. You can also haggle online. Nearly three of five survey respondents were successful in scoring a price break. A third of them negotiated with a retailer by phone vs. 29 percent through e-mails, and 13 percent by online chat.      For more you can read  Tips to help you&#8212;and your finances&#8212;survive the holidays , first published in  Consumer Reports Money Advisor , and check out  Fewer Consumers Expect A Jolly 2011 Holiday Shopping Season .      
         Advertised holiday sales creep earlier and earlier each year, and Small Business Saturday (Nov. 26) has entered the fray to compete with Black-Friday sales at big retailers, and Cyber-Monday deals by online vendors.       This year marks the second small-business Saturday, which Facebook and American Express have teamed up to promote. Consumers can receive $25 credits on their American Express bills by registering valid cards via the  Small Business Saturday  Facebook page, and then use those cards to make purchases at small businesses this Saturday.      Many smaller businesses are independently owned, and in our shopping surveys we have found that independent stores regularly get high marks from consumers when it comes to the overall shopping experience.       Mom-and-pop independent stores should be your first stop if you need hand-holding for a major electronics purchase. With the exception of prices (which were average), independents were above par in every respect in our recent survey of more than 22,000 shoppers on where to buy electronics. And when it comes to those average prices, try negotiating. Readers were more successful in getting price reductions or extras at independent stores than at big chain retailers.      For more you can read  Where to buy electronics , which appeared in the  December issue of Consumer Reports .        Small Business Saturday  [Facebook]    
         According to our holiday poll, one in four Americans plan to hit the stores on Black Friday. Whether you plan to do all of your shopping at brick and mortar stores (44 percent of those surveyed said just that), or if you'll be comparing in-store and online prices, the following list of opening hours for some of the big-name retailers can help you strategically launch your holiday shopping.       Keep in mind, however, that Black Friday prices are not always lowest for some of the products we've recommended. In a  price comparison by Decide.com , the lowest prices of the season on electronics items were not on Black Friday or Cyber Monday.       Thanksgiving Day:    Kmart 6 a.m.   Old Navy 9 a.m. Thanksgiving and midnight Friday   Toys R Us 9 p.m.   Walmart 10 p.m.       Midnight Friday    Ace Hardware   Best Buy   Kohl's   Target (which is opening despite an  employee's campaign to cancel this year's earlier hours )       Friday:    JCPenney 4 a.m.   Macy's 4 a.m.   Sears 4 a.m.   A.C. Moore 5 a.m.   Sports Authority 5 a.m.   Half Price Books 7 a.m.      Black Friday shopping tips:    Black Friday: Big appliance buys at the big box stores     Best GPS deals for 2011 Black Friday--Your guide to navigating doorbusters     Best new car deals for Black Friday and Thanksgiving weekend     Black Friday 2011: 10 best TV deals     Black Friday: There are good buys and there are CR Best Buys       And for more holiday shopping strategies check out  Black Friday 2011: 12 tips for getting the best deals , plus  7 tips for organized and hassle-free holiday shopping .     
         Today's electronics deals, courtesy of  The Consumerist :           Tanga.com : Dell Latitude E6400 Mainstream Laptop w/ Free Kube MP3 Player for $329.99          Entertainment            Amazon : Metal Gear Solid HD Collection for Xbox 360 $29.99 with Free Shipping      Amazon : X-Men: First Class [Blu-ray] $10          Neither Consumer Reports nor The Consumerist receive anything in exchange for featuring these deals; the posts are intended to be purely informational. These deals are often fleeting, with prices changing or products becoming unavailable as the day progresses.        These posts are not an endorsement of the featured products or the Web sites that sell them—though some of the sites may be included, and recommended, in our  Ratings of retailers for computers  and  other major electronics  (both available to subscribers). Price shouldn't be your only criterion. Be wary of lower-priced deals that seem  too good to be true , and check return policies for restocking fees and other gotchas.        For general buying advice for many of the products on sale above, check out our  free Buying Guides .     
         Sears, Home Depot and Lowe&#8217;s want  you to enjoy a Happy Thanksgiving with your friends and family. While they plan to open their doors early on Black Friday like other retailers, these big box stores have already started their sales events including substantial discounts on new appliances that&#8217;ll ease your holiday cooking and cleaning up. We saw prices slashed on some of the refrigerators, dishwashers, cooking appliances and laundry equipment that Consumer Reports recommends as well as discounts on models we didn&#8217;t like so much.      &#8220;It&#8217;s a great time of year to shop for appliances because our suppliers give us a lot of special offers that save our customers money,&#8221; said Bob Baird, merchandising vice president for appliances at Home Depot, adding that some consumers take advantage of the deals to upgrade their kitchens for holiday entertaining while others see the purchase "as a gift for the entire family.&#8221; Below are some of the deals we found at Home Depot, Lowe's and Sears on models tested by Consumer Reports. The list is not exhaustive so check the retailer's website for more information. All prices were current at press time.        Home Depot     Home Depot is offering up to  40 percent off select appliances  through November 28 while supplies last. The retailer is also offering discounts on kitchen suites by LG, GE and Maytag and washer/dryer combos by LG, GE, Maytag and Admiral as well as 20 percent off Dyson vacuum cleaners. Delivery is free and Home Depot will haul away your old appliances. Here are some models to consider and others to avoid.       Refrigerators.  The  Maytag MFX2571XE[W]  French-door bottom-freezer refrigerator, a recommended model, has been marked down from $2,699 to $1,798. Another recommended refrigerator, the top-freezer  LG LTC22350[SW]  was originally $999 and is now $798. But the  GE Profile PGSS5RKZ[SS]  French-door bottom-freezer model only scored 35 (out of 100) in our Ratings so the markdown from $2,599 to $1,798 may not be such a great buy.       Ranges.   LG&#8217;s LDE3015ST  electric range scored a respectable 81 in our Ratings but did not make the recommended list. Originally $1,199, it is now $898. At less than $700&#8212;marked down from $850&#8212; Maytag&#8217;s MER7765W[W]  is affordable but with a score of 69 it landed in the middle of the pack.       Dishwashers.  Two dishwashers with middling scores are also being discounted. The  GE GLD5766V[SS] , which scored a 58, has been marked down from $550 to $400. And the  LG LDF6920[WW] , which with a score of 79 did a little better, has been discounted from $799 to $598.         Lowe&#8217;s     At Lowe&#8217;s consumers who buy a Samsung kitchen suite can save up to $1,200 with combined discounts. And matching washer and dryer sets from Samsung  and Whirlpool are being marked down as much as $1,100. Select refrigerators are being  discounted by 40 percent  and you can save up to 45 percent on a Samsung over-the-range microwave. But take note, not everything is a bargain.       Refrigerators.  The price of the  Samsung RF4287HA[RS]   French-door bottom-freezer refrigerator, a model we recommend, has been dropped from $2,999 to $1,799.  And one of our CR Best Buys, the  Samsung RS265TD[WP] , is now an even better buy at $999, marked down from $1,599.       Ranges . While the ranges in Lowe&#8217;s sale have attractive prices, we didn&#8217;t find them to be stellar performers. One of the better models included in the sale is the  Whirlpool WFE371LVB  electric range, which scored 76 in our tests. The sale price is $499, down from $599. Two other Whirlpools did not fare as well. The  Whirlpool WFE361LV[Q]  electric range scored 62 and is selling for $540, down from $699. And the  Whirlpool WFG361LV[Q]  gas range, which scored 51, is selling for $499, down from $599.  Samsung&#8217;s  FTQ353IWUX  electric range, with a score of 70, is now $699, reduced from $999.       Microwaves.  If you need a good microwave at a good price, you&#8217;re in luck at Lowe&#8217;s, one of CR&#8217;s Best Buys, the   Whirlpool WMH1163XV[Q] , is on sale for $139, marked down from $199. The  Samsung SMH8165[B] , which we also tested, scored a 65 so it&#8217;s up to you if you want to take advantage of the price cut from $299 to $189.       Dishwashers.  Two dishwashers we liked, including a recommended model and a CR Best Buy, are being discounted. A Best Buy, the  Whirlpool DU1055XTV[Q] , is now only $289 marked down from $449. And the price of the  Samsung DMT800RH[W] , which we recommend, has dropped from $699 to $499.         Sears     Sears is featuring up to  20 percent off Kenmore appliances  and offering free delivery on appliances $500 and more. Some of Consumer Reports recommended models and CR Best Buys are on the list. The retailers is planning other doorbusters for Black Friday. There are a few clunkers on the list so don&#8217;t be swayed by a low price tag.       Refrigerators.  The  Kenmore Elite 7205[3]  one of our recommended French-door bottom-freezer refrigerators, is on sale for $3,000, down from $3,540.       Ranges.  The  LG LRG3091SW  gas range, a CR Best Buy, is selling for $900, down from $1,300.  LG&#8217;s LDE3017ST  electric range has also been reduced $400, from $1,700 to $1,300 but it only scored a 69 in our tests.       Microwaves.  Two fair to middling microwaves are on Sears sales list including the  LG LMV1813[SW]  over-the-range model, which scored a 70 and is selling for $250, reduced from $320. With a score of 57, the  LG LMV1680[ST] , over-the-range model did not perform as well but doesn&#8217;t cost as much either: $200 reduced from $250.       Dishwashers.  The  Kenmore Elite 1396[2]  dishwasher, which we recommend, is selling for $700, down from the original $1,270.        Washing machines.  At least two CR Best Buys are on sale at Sears including the     Kenmore 4027[2]  front-loader for $753, down from $941 and the  Samsung WF331AN[W]  front loader for $600, reduced from $1,100.       Dryers.   The  Kenmore 6800[2]  electric dryer is also a CR Best Buy and is selling for $725, reduced from $823.    
         The Federal Communications Commission is seeking to hold a hearing on AT&T's plan to purchase T-Mobile, saying that the proposed merger of the wireless giant and smaller carrier would diminish competition, and is not in the public's interest.         FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski has reportedly filed an order requesting that the other four commissioners vote to have an administrative law judge hear the case, the Wall Street Journal reported earlier today.       This past summer, the  U.S. Department of Justice filed its own suit  to block AT&T's proposed $39 billion deal to acquire T-Mobile. The FCC's hearing would occur after the DOJ's pending lawsuit is settled, and would only go forward if the proposed merger is not blocked by that current suit. The DOJ trial is set to begin in 2012.       In a statement to our sister site, The Consumerist, Larry Solomon, AT&T's senior vice president of Corporate Communications wrote: "The FCC's action today is disappointing. It is yet another example of a government agency acting to prevent billions in new investment and the creation of many thousands of new jobs at a time when the US economy desperately needs both."      Parul Desai, policy counsel for Consumers Union, the advocacy arm of Consumer Reports said in a statement:        We believe it is critical for the FCC to examine the consequences of a combined AT&T/T-Mobile, including higher prices, fewer choices, and the negative impact on competition in the wireless market -- all which make it clear that this merger is simply not in the public&#8217;s best interest.      According to  our analysis of the voice and data plans available from AT&T and T-Mobile , T-Mobile wireless plans typically cost $15-$50 per month less than comparable plans from AT&T.       The last time the FCC proposed such a hearing was in 2002, to address the proposed merger of EchoStar and DirecTV. That merger failed.        FCC Chief to Seek Hearing on AT&T Deal  [Wall Street Journal]    FCC To Add Yet Another Speed Bump To AT&T/T-Mobile Deal  [Consumerist.com]     
         If you're about to embark on this year's holiday shopping adventure, you may want to jot down the retailers that our readers gave high marks to based on their own shopping experiences.      Whether you want to hit the big stores, or are shopping for small appliances, check the list below for top retailers from our survey of more than 22,000 readers. Overall, independent walk-in stores were also highly rated by our readers.          Big retailers    Costco got high marks for product quality.    Dillard's also got high marks for product quality, and was also praised for service and checkout speed.       Small appliances    Amazon.com was noted for easy checkout and good shipping policies.    QVC.com was also praised for easy checkout and good shipping policies.    Independent stores stood out for their service.       Electronics    Personal advisers at Crutchfield.com will help with your order.    BHPhotoVideo.com was noted for selection.    Newegg.com got top scores for price.       Computers    Amazon.com got a shoutout for its selection.   Newegg.com also got a shoutout for computer selection.   Apple.com was praised by survey respondents for both its selection and service.      For more savvy shopping advice, check out  Hassle-free shopping: Tips to help you—and your finances—survive the holidays , first published in  Consumer Reports Money Advisor .    
         Ah, Thanksgiving. Is there any other holiday we celebrate whose sole purpose seems to be eating ourselves into a food coma? For the millions of Americans struggling with diabetes, that can be a very real danger. The traditional Thanksgiving spread, loaded with high fat, high carb, high sugar treats, can be a landmine for a diabetic. Without care, that once a year high-indulgence meal could spell serious hurt if you need to be watching your blood sugar.      Short of sitting in misery watching everyone else eat, or skipping the festivities all together, with a little careful planning you can easily make room at the table for a guest keeping tabs on blood sugar, or seat yourself at someone else’s feast without feeling like you have to pass on everything passed your way.  The  American Diabetes Association offers lots of tips  on how to partake without endangering your health. These include:       --Make choices. Opt for mashed  or  sweet potatoes, stuffing  or  a roll.   --Be vigilant on portion sizes. Want to try everything?  Then keep it to sample size, not super size.   --Compensate for the extra calories by including physical activity in your program. Trade in watching the game on TV for a game of touch football in the yard.      Trying to tailor your treats to better suit the dietary needs of a diabetic guest?  The Mayo Clinic has some  great takes  on traditional Thanksgiving temptations.         And the best recommendation for enjoying your Thanksgiving:  Try more gabbing, less gobbling.  A day spent enjoying the company of family and friends instead of keeping your focus squarely on your plate just might help you safely navigate the holiday foodfest.      For more on satisfying feasts without all the trimmings, read  Healthy Holiday Choices .       
         Looking for a great deal on a portable GPS navigator? There are many discounts being offered for Black Friday, though some prices are clearly better than others. It can be time consuming to scan sales flyers and determine the true standout deals on good navigators. To speed things along, we&#8217;ve done the homework for you, highlighting the best offers from major retailers.      In scouring the ads, we noticed this year that the focus is on newer devices from top-name brands. It used to be that there were GPS units from smaller companies and electronics giants whose primary focus is not navigation. Plus, many of the units with the most tempting prices were one, two, or even three generations old. This year, the pickings are much better, but shoppers are still facing some tough choices.       As you look through the offers, and our  online ratings , it is key to determine your must-have attributes, such as screen size, Bluetooth connectivity, and traffic services. In scanning the ads, we see that models often offer lifetime maps, lifetime traffic, and sometimes even both. It is far more cost effective to purchase these features upfront than add them later. The real pitfall here is that some units without those options are likely to get the real head-turning prices. It is your choice if you think the way you use the device will favor these services (we find them worthwhile), but the important thing is to know what you&#8217;re buying.       In addition to discounts on portable devices, navigation app providers typically offers discounts for Black Friday and often again in December. If you&#8217;re a smart phone user looking for some extra guidance, hold out for reduced prices.  Navigon just announced  a temporary price drop in its latest apps, and the competitors are sure to follow.       To compile the best deals list, we scoured major electronics retailers and deal sites, including many more than featured. Of course, in this competitive market, more attractive deals may be available, but this provides an excellent start. We avoided refurb models, which were the focus for some online electronics retailers. A basic description is provided to help sift through the listing, but we recommend visiting the model pages at ConsumerReports.org for ratings, features, and an explanation of performance. In some cases, multiple listings are included for a popular model, as stores may or may not be available locally, and online retailers may provide free shipping.       Many retailers are offering the same prices online as in the store. Given that there are real risks that an individual store may run out of stock before you can negotiate your way to the shelves, consider buying online. It may better your chances, reduce stress, and potentially avoid sales tax.       Below, we highlight our picks for the best Black Friday deals on GPS devices.                          Make/model          Price              Store          Notes                      Garmin Dakota 10        $149.99             Sports Authority        Doorbuster. Handheld hiking GPS.                Garmin Nuvi 40        $59.99            HHGregg        Doorbuster                 Garmin Nuvi 40        $79.99          Staples        &nbsp;                       Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $89.99            Staples        Doorbuster. Lifetime maps.                       Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $99.99          Office Max        Lifetime maps.                        Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $99.99          Sears        Lifetime maps.                  Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $84.99            Best Buy        Doorbuster. Lifetime maps.                        Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $99.99        Kmart        Doorbuster. Lifetime maps.                 Garmin Nuvi 40LM        $89.99        Radio Shack        Lifetime maps.                       Garmin Nuvi 50        $95.00        Meijer        Doorbuster. Large 5-inch screen.                       Garmin Nuvi 50        $99.99        Staples        Large 5-inch screen.                     Garmin Nuvi 50LM        $99.99&nbsp;         HHGregg        Large 5-inch screen. Lifetime maps.               Garmin Nuvi 1200        $69.99        Sports Authority        Basic navigator               Garmin Nuvi 1250         $69.99        Sports Authority        Basic navigator with spoken street names.               Garmin Nuvi 1350        $69.99        Sports Authority        Widescreen basic navigator              Garmin Nuvi 1390T         $129.99        Radio Shack        Lifetime maps and traffic.                    Garmin 1450        $119.99        Office Max        Large 5-inch screen.                      Garmin 1450LM        $129.99        Office Max        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps.                Garmin Nuvi1450LMT        $129.99        HHGregg        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic                Garmin Nuvi1450LMT        $129.99        Office Depot        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                      Garmin Nuvi1450LMT        $134.99        Amazon        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                Garmin Nuvi 1490LMT        $149.00        Sam's Club        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic. Bluetooth.                Garmin Nuvi 1490LMT        $155.99         Amazon          Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic. Bluetooth.                Magellan RoadMate 1700         $129.99        Sears          Doorbuster. Giant 7-inch screen                  Magellan RoadMate 2120T-LM        $30 off        Costco          4.3-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                      Magellan RoadMate 2136-LM        $99.99        Kmart        Lifetime maps and traffic.                        Magellan RoadMate 2145-LM        $99.99        BJ's        Lifetime maps and traffic.                      Magellan RoadMate 3030-LM        $99.99        Office Depot        Large 4.7-inch screen, lifetime maps                Magellan Roadmate 3120        $69.00        Walmart        Doorbuster. Large 4.7-inch screen.                Magellan RoadMate 5045LTM        $119.99        Sears        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps.                Magellan RoadMate 5045LTM        $119.99        Amazon        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps.                TomTom 550TM        $89.99        Kmart        Lifetime maps and traffic.                TomTom 1505T        $109.99        Office Max        Large 5-inch screen, traffic                TomTom Via 1505M        $89.00        Target        Doorbuster. Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps.                TomTom Via 1505TM        $119.99        Staples        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                TomTom 1530TM        $55 off        Costco        Large 5-inch screen, traffic. Bluetooth.                TomTom Via 1530TM        $119.99        BJ's        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                TomTom Via 1535TM        &lt;$130        Amazon        Large 5-inch screen, traffic, voice recognition                TomTom Via 1535TM        $119.99        Best Buy        Large 5-inch screen, traffic, voice recognition.                TomTom Go Live 1535M        $179.99        Best Buy        Large 5-inch screen, HD traffic, connected services.                TomTom XL 350M        $85.00        Meijer        Doorbuster. Lifetime maps.                TomTom XL 350M        $89.99        Office Max        Lifetime maps.                TomTom XXL 540S        $89.99        Amazon        Large 5-inch screen.                TomTom XXL 540M        $99.99        Amazon        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps.                TomTom XXL 550T        $89.99        Office Depot        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime traffic.                TomTom XXL 550T        119.99        Office Depot        Large 5-inch screen, lifetime maps and traffic.                TomTom XXL 550TM        99.99        Radio Shack        Doorbuster. Large 5-inch scren, lifetime traffic, maps.                         In addition to the deals highlighted above, ConsumerReports.org has a Price & Shop function tied in with most electronics ratings that allows you to move right from reviewing test results to checking the prices online and even buying the product. This service is offered in partnership with PriceGrabber.com, providing an ad-free user experience. Retailers cannot pay for top placement in our safe-shopping environment, so consumers looking to buy GPS, can be assured that their shopping search results will be listed by price from lowest to highest to ensure a good shopping experience. Featured retailers meet certain customer service standards, and there are retailer ratings to guide you to the best prices from trusted retailers.            
         Planning to give hot-ticket electronics gifts this year? You can shop smart by following a couple of steps you may not have considered yet, such as making your purchases at highly rated retailers, and trying your hand at haggling.        Buy online:  In our  report on where to buy electronics , Amazon.com, BHPhotoVideo.com, Crutchfield.com, and Newegg.com all received strong marks from readers who responded to our electronics retailer survey. Those four were also standouts for shipping and home delivery.       Overall, online merchants did better than walk-in retailers, even for big-ticket items like TVs. For walk-in stores, independent retailers topped our  Ratings  (available to subscribers). The Apple Store, Costco, and Staples also got high scores.      A  separate survey of computer buyers  found more overall satisfaction with online vendors than with walk-in stores ( Ratings  available to subscribers.) Just 2 percent of computer shoppers who dealt with online retailers said they paid more than expected, but more than half of walk-in buyers spent more than expected. Highest-rated walk-in stores for computers were the Apple Store, Micro Center, and Costco.      Newegg.com was the only retailer in our electronics-shopping survey to receive top marks for price. Crutchfield.com stood alone among online retailers for having top-of-the-line customer service.       Haggle:  Just 13 percent of shoppers said they tried haggling at walk-in stores. But those who did saved an average of $82. Shoppers saved a median of $105 on televisions, $53 on digital cameras, and $43 on DVD/Blu-ray players.       Four in five hagglers negotiated the price of their purchases at HHGregg, P.C. Richard & Son, and independent walk-in stores. At Best Buy and Sears, at least three in five hagglers shaved dollars off the prices they paid. Hagglers for computers were successful more than half the time; the average savings was a whopping $103.      You can also haggle for a discount online. Our survey found that nearly three of five were successful in scoring a price break, even though few even think to try in the first place. A third of them negotiated with a retailer by phone vs. 29 percent through e-mail messages and 13 percent by online chat. Two-thirds of computer buyers who negotiated directly with manufacturers got a lower price.      For more advice check out  7 tips for organized and hassle-free holiday shopping . Plus you can read the full article:  Tips to help you&#8212;and your finances&#8212;survive the holidays , first published in  Consumer Reports Money Advisor .    
         Today's electronics deals, courtesy of  The Consumerist :         Office Depot : Logitech V220 Cordless USB Laptop Mouse for $7 + free shipping      Best Buy : Lenovo B570 Intel Dual Core 2.1GHz 16" Laptop for $330 + free shipping      Tanga.com : Vibe Juicys Comfort Earbud Stereo Headphones with Free Shipping for $2.99        Entertainment          Amazon : The Lord of the Rings Trilogy: Extended Edition [Blu-ray] $50      Amazon : Modern Family: Season 1& 2 [Blu-ray] each $18.49        Neither Consumer Reports nor The Consumerist receive anything in exchange for featuring these deals; the posts are intended to be purely informational. These deals are often fleeting, with prices changing or products becoming unavailable as the day progresses.        These posts are not an endorsement of the featured products or the Web sites that sell them&#8212;though some of the sites may be included, and recommended, in our  Ratings of retailers for computers  and  other major electronics  (both available to subscribers). Price shouldn't be your only criterion. Be wary of lower-priced deals that seem  too good to be true , and check return policies for restocking fees and other gotchas.        For general buying advice for many of the products on sale above, check out our  free Buying Guides .     
         Spirit Airlines was fined $50,000, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced today, for deceptive advertising that did not include fees and taxes upfront in ads on billboards and posters, as well as advertising tweets by the airline.        DOT rules require all price advertisements for air travel to list the full price to be paid by the consumer, including all carrier-imposed surcharges.      Starting in June 2011, Spirit used billboards and hand-held posters to advertise new service from Los Angeles, that contained an asterisk next to the advertised fare. On the billboards, the asterisk led to small print that stated additional taxes, fees and conditions would apply, but did not disclose the amount. The posters did not include any information about the taxes and fees. In addition, Spirit sent Twitter feeds announcing one-way fares for $9.  A consumer who clicked on the link was taken to a second Webpage where the carrier disclosed for the first time that the fare did not include all taxes and fees, and that to qualify, a roundtrip ticket had to be purchased. Only after clicking on another link was the amount of additional taxes and fees disclosed.        &#8220;Consumers have a right to know the full price they will be paying when they buy an airline ticket,&#8221; U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a press statement.  &#8220;We expect airlines to treat their passengers fairly, and we will take enforcement action when they violate our price advertising rules.&#8221;      As we've reported in  Best & Worst Airlines , the  proliferation of fees has been a major source of aggravation to airline passengers .        DOT Fines Spirit Airlines for Violating Price Advertising Rules  [DOT]    
         With holiday shopping comes the inevitable crowds, the frantic search for hot-ticket items, and long lines at checkout. We have tips for helping you survive the hectic holiday scene, starting with mapping your strategy for smart holiday shopping.         According to our new holiday poll, shoppers say they will spend 19 hours hunting for the right gifts this holiday season, up four hours from last year. Despite this bump in time spent shopping, American's still overwhelming dread the crowds and long lines, at 68 percent of survey respondents. The right plan of attack can help alleviate some of that shopping stress.        Tips for organizing your holiday shopping:      Decide how much you'll spend, then add a bit more. Our holiday surveys have found that Americans typically spend more than they expect. In your spending estimate, include the holiday tips you plan to give to service providers such as a house cleaner or dog groomer, as well as gifts for party hosts.    Downsize in style. If your budget is smaller than last year, or your recipient list has grown, you can look for high-quality, lower-priced alternatives to your usual standbys. For wine, check out  Consumer Reports' Best Buys , most for $10 or less. ( Ratings  available to subscribers.) One zinfandel we found—Old Moon (2009)—costs just $6 and is sold at Trader Joe's. Three 2009 shirazes—Alice White, the Little Penguin, and Yellow Tail—retail for about $7. If you're uncomfortable giving inexpensive wine as a gift, serve it in a carafe at your holiday table.    Check the Web first. The Web is a great tool for comparison shopping whether you buy online or prefer a local store. Our  recent survey of electronics shoppers  found that those who went to price-comparison websites were happier with the price they ended up paying whether they bought online or in a store. (Ratings available to subscribers.)    Some retailer websites will tell you whether an item you want is in stock at a particular store. Many, including Best Buy and Sears, will let you purchase an item online and pick it up at a local store, saving you shipping fees. In our  survey , consumers found shopping for electronics at Walmart.com a more satisfactory experience than shopping in a Walmart store. ( Ratings  available to subscribers.)    Shop alone, and forgo the ordeal known as Black Friday. Attempting to snag a door-buster bargain on Black Friday can be an exercise in frustration, with little chance of a rain check for that missed deal.    Night owls catch the worm as often as early birds during December, when many chain retailers extend their hours and sometimes offer "flash" in-store sales at odd hours. For example, last year 14 Macy's stores, mainly in the northeast, were open 83 consecutive hours, from 7 a.m. on Dec. 21 to 6 p.m. on Dec. 24, while other outlets stayed open until 2 a.m. Toys 'R Us stores had a similar promotion, opening at 6 a.m. on Dec. 21. Of course, the Internet is open around the clock.    Allow about 10 percent of your total holiday budget for the cost of wrapping, packing, and postage. To save on the cost of wrapping, you can also use old maps, the funny pages, and even old scraps of fabric for inexpensive, novel gift wrap.       For more details about preparing for your holiday shopping you can read the full article,  Hassle-free shopping: Tips to help you—and your finances—survive the holidays , first published in  Consumer Reports Money Advisor . You can also check out more findings from our recent holiday poll  Shoppers will spend 19 hours looking for holiday gifts .    
         Ån e-book reader such as the Amazon Kindle can be quite convenient for frequent air travelers. But some European jet-setters are reporting that run-ins with airport X-ray machines are killing their Kindles.      According to the UK's  Telegraph  newspaper,  Kindle  owners have said their  e-book readers  produced blank screens and were nonfunctional after passing through the  X-ray machines at European airports .      Amazon has replaced users' dead Kindles, and the company stresses that airport security scanners aren't to blame. An Amazon spokesman told the  Telegraph:       Many Kindle users travel by air, and their Kindles are screened by airport security every day without issue.      Some technical experts believe static electricity, which may be created by the X-ray machines' rubber conveyor belts, might be the cause of some traveling Kindles' demise. Interestingly, there have been no reports of similar traveling problems with other e-readers, such as the  Barnes & Noble Nook , which use the same  e-ink technology .       Amazon Kindles 'damaged by airport scanners'  [The Telegraph]  Amazon Kindle May Be Damaged By Airport Scanners  [Gizmodo]    
         The holidays are a time of feasting and indulging, and with that comes the fact that inevitably more food gets tossed into the garbage after a holiday meal.       According to the Worldwatch Institute, an environmental research organization, Americans generate an extra 5 million tons of household waste each year between Thanksgiving and New Year's.       To reduce the amount of food that gets thrown out, you can plan for how much  you’ll need before you start cooking, and also control portion size during the meal. Plus you can make the most of the leftovers once the holiday feast is at an end.       Steps to curb food waste from the Worldwatch Institute:      Plan how much food you and your guests will realistically need. The fear of not providing enough to eat often causes hosts to cook too much.    Create a shopping list and stick to it. This can reduce the risk of impulse buys, or buying too much of one thing.     Reduce the amount left on plates. The holiday season often promotes plates piled high with food. You can use smaller serving utensils or plates to encourage smaller portions, and guests can always take seconds.     Allow guests to serve themselves, choosing what, and how much, they would like to eat. This also helps reduce the amount of unwanted food left on plates.    Store leftovers properly. The U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends that hot foods be left out for no more than two hours. Store leftovers in smaller, individually sized containers, making them more convenient to grab for a quick meal.    Consider composting scraps of food. Individual composting systems can be relatively easy and inexpensive, and compost can do wonders for garden soil.    If composting is not an option, look into creative new recipes for leftovers. For example, vegetable scraps and turkey carcasses can be boiled down for stock and soups, and bread crusts can be used for croutons.    Donate holiday meal excess. To find a food bank near you, visit the organization’s Food Bank Locator.    Support food-recovery programs. In some cases, food-recovery systems will come to you to collect your excess. In New York City, City Harvest collects about 28 million pounds of food each year, providing groceries and meals for over 300,000 people, the Worldwatch Institute reports.     Think carefully about giving food items as holiday gifts. Avoid perishable items, and select foods that you know the recipient will enjoy. For example, chocolate, coffee, and tea all  have long shelf lives.       For more helpful advice about planning a Thanksgiving Day meal check out our  Six things to do now if you're cooking Thanksgiving dinner , plus  seven safety tips for Thanksgiving Day .        Reducing Food Waste during the Holiday Season  [ Nourishing the Planet]    
         With Black Friday now just days away, those of us looking to get a new  HDTV  for the holidays might be starting to narrow down the choices. We've seen a  number of great deals  being offered for the event, but we also believe that TV promotions will continue right through the new year, so don't be discouraged if you miss out on a Black Friday special.      In fact, based on  a recent analysis  we did with the price-prediction website Decide.com, in a significant number of instances the lowest prices of the season were offered not on Black Friday or Cyber Monday but later in the year. Still, if you do intend to do some TV shopping on Black Friday this year, here are 10 deals  that caught our attention:       1. Sharp 42-inch 1080p LCD TV (LC-42SV49U), $200 at Best Buy.  Not surprising, given its shockingly low price, this is a doorbuster special from Best Buy, available in limited quantities at store locations. This is a fairly basic 1080p LCD set, though it does have four HDMI inputs. Sharp has been a somewhat inconsistent performer in our Ratings, but it's still hard to beat a TV that's priced like a microwave oven.       2. Westinghouse 46-inch 1080p LCD TV (VR-4625), $298 at Target.  Westinghouse TVs have typically been among the lower-ranked sets in our Ratings, but this fairly basic model&#8212;a 60Hz set with a CCFL (fluorescent) backlight&#8212;might be just the ticket for budget-conscious shoppers looking for a TV for a secondary room of the house.        3. Vizio 47-inch 3D LCD TV (XVT3D474SV), $938 at Amazon.  This 47-inch 3D TV from Vizio is loaded with features, including a full-array LED backlight with local dimming, the equivalent of 480Hz technology, built-in dual-band Wi-Fi, and Vizio's VIA suite of Internet apps and services, including streaming movies and TV shows. The set is a passive-3D model and comes with four sets of  lightweight polarized glasses.       4. Dynex 55-inch 1080 LCD TV (DX-55L150A11), $600 at Best Buy.  This might be an appealing option for those looking for a larger set with a few extra features, such as 1080p resolution and 120Hz anti-blur technology. It has four HDMI inputs, which are also a plus. Dynex TVs have done well in our TV Ratings, generally offering very good overall performance at a fairly low price.       5. Samsung 51-inch 720p plasma (PN51D430), $498 at Walmart.  This is a basic 720p plasma from a brand that has typically done well in the CR TV Ratings. It uses the company's narrow-bezel  "Plus One"  design to squeeze an extra inch of screen. (Sears is selling this TV for just one dollar more as part of its early CyberMonday sale today.)       6. Zenith 50-inch 1080p plasma (Z50PV220), $500 at Sears.  We've seen plasma TVs at this price, but seldom a 1080p model. For the past two years, Sears and Kmart have been rolling out low-priced Black Friday sets bearing the  Zenith brand , and this year is no exception. It's a basic 1080p plasma.       7. Panasonic 46-inch 720p plasma TV (TC-P46X3), $400 from Best Buy.  Like Samsung's, Panasonic plasmas typically do very well in our TV Ratings, and we purchased this set earlier this year for more than $600. Despite its lower resolution, it has a good number of features, including the ability to accept an optional Wi-Fi adapter and Panasonic's EZ IPTV Internet platform, with access to streaming movies and TV shows.       8) Emerson 32-inch 720p LCD TV (LC320EM1-SF), $188 at Walmart.  this is a very basic 720p LCD TV from Emerson, a brand controlled by Funai. It might be a good choice for those looking to outfit a spare bedroom or guest room with a basic, low-priced set. We've seen this set for close to $350 on various sites. Walmart will also have a 40-inch Emerson set for $248.       9. LG 47-inch 3D LCD TV and Blu-ray player bundle, $799 at Walmart.  Walmart has created a 3D package consisting of LG's 47LW5300 1080p 3D LCD TV, plus an unnamed 3D Blu-ray player and four sets of lightweight polarized glasses. The TV, which uses passive 3D technology, has a decent number of features, including an edge LED backlight and a 120Hz refresh rate, but it doesn't include the company's Smart TV Internet platform. If you're looking to go bigger, both Amazon and Walmart have a similar bundle with LG's 55-inch 55LW5300 3D set for just under $1,250.       10. Three big-screen specials at Best Buy and Walmart, $800 to $1,000.  Here are three options for those looking for very big TVs:       	 Sharp 60-inch 1080p LCD TV (LC60E79U), $800 Best Buy. A major-brand 120Hz set.    	 Westinghouse 60-inch 1080p LCD TV VR-6025Z), $800 at Best Buy. Normally this 120Hz set is $1,000.    	 Toshiba 65-inch 1080p LCD TV (65HT2U), $998 at Walmart. A 120Hz set that, based on our experience with the Toshiba TVs in our Ratings, would benefit greatly from an external sound system.           These are just some of the best deals we've seen offered for Black Friday, so let us know what's on your radar this year. To make the most of these, and other, specials, make sure you read our blog with  12 tips for getting the best Black Friday deals.  And remember that the cheapest TV doesn't always mean it's the best deal. Since you'll likely own the set for a good number of years, make sure you one that really fits your needs.    
         Today's electronics deals, courtesy of  The Consumerist :            US Appliance : Samsung 59" 600Hz 1080p 3D Plasma HDTV, 3D glasses for $627 + free shipping      Best Buy : SanDisk 8GB Cruzer Edge USB Flash Drive for $5 at Best Buy stores (updated)      Best Buy : Toshiba Satellite AMD Dual 1.6GHz 16" LED Laptop for $270 + free shipping          Neither Consumer Reports nor The Consumerist receive anything in exchange for featuring these deals; the posts are intended to be purely informational. These deals are often fleeting, with prices changing or products becoming unavailable as the day progresses.        These posts are not an endorsement of the featured products or the Web sites that sell them—though some of the sites may be included, and recommended, in our  Ratings of retailers for computers  and  other major electronics  (both available to subscribers). Price shouldn't be your only criterion. Be wary of lower-priced deals that seem  too good to be true , and check return policies for restocking fees and other gotchas.        For general buying advice for many of the products on sale above, check out our  free Buying Guides .     
         Consumer Reports today unveiled its 2011 Naughty & Nice Holiday List.  First introduced in 2010 as part of a public-education campaign, the Naughty & Nice Holiday List looks at the good and not-so-good shopping policies and the companies behind them.  This year&#8217;s List includes high profile companies from a variety of fields including: air travel, electronics, apparel retailing, credit-card lending and concert ticketing.      The Naughty & Nice Holiday List is based on input from Consumer Reports reporters and editors who cover shopping, travel, hospitality and telecommunications. Consumer Reports notes that the Naughty & Nice Holiday List is based on specific policies and is not reflective of a company as a whole.      The success of our roundup--timed to coincide with the holiday season, when travel and shopping are at a peak and shoppers at their most vulnerable--has prompted Consumer Reports to make the campaign an annual event. Our 2011 list once again puts some very visible companies in the hot seat for fine print, befuddling fees, and the like. It gives other companies points for good behavior.      We&#8217;ve checked each policy either by direct contact or reading through the details on the company&#8217;s website. Although we cite companies by name, other players may engage in similar business practices&#8212;for better or worse. And praise or blame for a specific policy doesn&#8217;t mean we give a thumbs up or down for everything else that company does or the way it treats customers.        Nice:        • Bi-Lo supermarkets.  Most supermarkets will refund the purchase price of a product that doesn&#8217;t meet expectations, but this Southern chain offers a double-money-back guarantee on every item it sells whatever the reason for the return.       • Cablevision.  Telecom companies are a frequent target of consumer displeasure, but this industry giant offers more to subscribers who sign up for its Optimum Triple Play - Internet, phone, and TV service - free movie tickets on Tuesdays and deeply discounted tickets on other days. Customers who sign up for Cablevision&#8217;s Optimum Rewards program (it&#8217;s free) also get perks like discounted popcorn and soda at participating theaters.       • Live Nation.  The world&#8217;s largest live-entertainment promoter, ticket distributor, and artist-management firm gives fans three days to cancel their ticket order and get a refund at participating venues (typically until one week before the event). Live Nation also lets customers exchange seats for better ones that become available after a purchase.         • American Express.  The company offers peace of mind at no extra cost. If a cardholder buys a covered item with his or her Amex card and unsuccessfully tries to return it to the merchant within 90 days, American Express can refund the full purchase price, up to $300 ($1,000 per account per year).       • Orvis.  Many e-commerce companies encourage questions by phone or e-mail. But this seller of fishing gear and outdoorsy clothes offers help if a customer lingers on a product long enough, initiating dialog via live chat.       • Crutchfield.  The electronics merchant offers help with installation, setup, troubleshooting 24/7, and tech support at no extra charge for the life of the gear purchased.        • Costco.  The chain has a generous return policy and provides free tech support for many electronics products. Less known is that it automatically extends the manufacturer&#8217;s original warranty on TVs and computers to two years from the date of purchase.       • Amazon.com.  The e-tailing giant has taken a stand against wastefuland hard-to-open product packaging. It encourages customers to share photographs and feedback with manufacturers, who can then modify their package designs and submit them to Amazon&#8217;s engineers to see if they qualify as frustration-free. If so, the companies can use the &#8220;Certified Frustration-Free&#8221; logo as a marketing tool. To date, hundreds of products from companies including Philips, Garmin, and Logitech have met the criteria.       • Microsoft.  If someone buys and installs software on his or her computer, most retailers won&#8217;t give out a refund, no matter how much the customer hates it. Not so with Microsoft. Consumers dissatisfied with a Microsoft software or hardware purchase from any retailer can send it back to the company within 45 days for a refund and reimbursement of shipping costs up to $7.       • REI.  The outdoor/adventure outfitter has one of the most liberal return policies around. It accepts returns or exchanges at any time for any reason, and makes the process simple. Customers can return any item by mail or to any REI store regardless of location, whether they bought online, by mail, or in an REI store. The policy even applies to goods bought from REI&#8217;s online outlet.          Naughty:        • AirTran.  Imagine that you bought a shirt and were charged extra for the buttons. Ridiculous, right? But this Orlando-based airline&#8217;s discounted coach and sale-fare flights don&#8217;t include the price of the seat. If you - like most people -- want to select your seat when you book online, AirTran will charge $6 to $20 each way. Otherwise, you can show up at the gate and take your chances that you don&#8217;t get stuck with a noisy back-row seat near the lavatory.       • RadioShack.  The company acknowledges that it sometimes charges different prices for the same item. When a reader shopped for an HDMI audio-video cable, the store price was nearly twice the online price. Asked why, a customer-service supervisor said he couldn&#8217;t do anything about the discrepancy, and directed the reader to the fine print on RadioShack&#8217;s website.       • American Apparel.  On the plus side, the Los Angeles-based company still makes clothes in the United States. However, it has two different return policies. Online customers have 45 days to return an item for a full refund or credit; store customers have 30 days and receive a merchandise credit.       • Verizon Wireless.  The company tells the Federal Communications Commission that it voluntarily provides ample warning to customers who seem about to exceed their monthly allotment of minutes, messages, or data, so a mandatory rule that would make it issue such alerts isn't necessary. But we caught Verizon doing -- and admitting to  -- something else. Two staffers who are Verizon customers recently were notified only after they went over their allotment, at which time the company tried to upsell them to a pricier plan. When contacted by our reporter, a company spokesman acknowledged that its voluntary alert system isn't always reliable. But it now looks like better protection from &#8220;bill shock&#8221; is on its way. Under a mid-October deal with the FCC, members of CTIA - The Wireless Association, a trade group representing 97 percent of wireless carriers, agreed to begin issuing alerts of impending overages. Full implementation of the alert system could take until April 2013.       • Liberty Travel.  Tour operators often advertise very low prices to suck in customers. But the quotes sometimes exclude high taxes and fees. Take Liberty Travel (billed as &#8220;America&#8217;s vacation experts&#8221;). It offers an eye-popping deal such as a three-night Disney vacation package, including airfare, theme park ticket, and some food, starting at $559 per person. But hold on. The 283 words of tiny type at the bottom of the ad say that the price excludes taxes and fees of up to $250, baggage fees, or other fees charged by the airline. And if someone needs to switch a flight? It&#8217;ll cost as much as $200 extra.       • The Swiss Colony.  Like many businesses, the 85-year-old Wisconsin-based mail-order food firm ties its delivery fees to the dollar amount of an order rather than the size and weight of the package - a practice we&#8217;ve criticized before. Thus, if an order totals $25, shipping and processing is $5.95, but if it costs a penny more, the freight jumps to $7.95 Beyond that, The Swiss Colony asks customers to fork over another $2.99 per shipping address for unspecified reasons. So we called the company for an explanation. The customer service rep told us the surcharge reflects the cost of a mailing label.       • Southwest Airlines.  For an extra $10 per flight, travelers can complete online check-in earlier than the usual 24 hours before takeoff, improve their boarding group position, snag a better seat (Southwest doesn&#8217;t assign seats; it&#8217;s first-come, first-served), and thus get their pick of available overhead bin space. It sounds benign enough. Yet, it&#8217;s another reminder that a basic ticket doesn&#8217;t buy much these days, and how price-conscious customers can get penalized if they don&#8217;t go for the upgrade.       • SiriusXM satellite radio.  If a subscriber wants to receive a bill in the mail and pay by check (the old-fashioned way), he or she will get socked with a $2 surcharge every month. The penalty can be avoided if the customer gives Sirius credit-card information and elects to be billed electronically on a recurring basis.       • GameStop.  A Fortune 500 company with more than 6,500 stores worldwide, this video game software and hardware merchant has a laundry list of conditions governing returns and exchanges. And in the end, GameStop proclaims, &#8220;We reserve the right to refuse any return.&#8221;       
         Retiring to a college town is a popular fantasy for many of us these days, perhaps second only to ever being able to retire at all. If you share that dream, you might be interested in a new report from Coldwell Banker, listing 116 college towns in order of housing affordability.       Coldwell Banker 2011 College Home Listing Report       Some other advice on how and where to retire, from Consumer Reports:       The 4 Best Places to Retire in America?         Buying vs. Renting in Retirement         3 Big Secrets of Happy Retirees      
         PayPal has launched a new app for Facebook, "Send Money," that you can use to, well,  send money directly to your friends on the social networking site.       The app lets you choose to either send a monetary transaction on its own, or to include a personalized e-card—say, for a birthday or other special occasions where money passes hands in celebration.         While PayPal states there are no transaction fees for using Send Money on Facebook, PayPal's regular limits ($10,000 per transaction), and fees for sending international payments will still apply.      The Send Money app is the first peer-to-peer payment system via Facebook and PayPal, although there are other ways to make a payment with PayPal through Facebook, as tech news site Mashable points out.       Go Ahead - Make Someone's Birthday, Holiday or Any Day Special with the New PayPal Send Money App for Facebook  [PayPal]    PayPal Launches Facebook App for Sending Money to Friends  [Mashable]    
         Today's electronics deals, courtesy of  The Consumerist :           CowBoom : Apple Magic Mouse (Refurbished) $34      All4Cellular : 10" Dell Inspiron Mini 10 1012 Netbook Refurbished $163      Quill : eMachines 23" 1080p LCD Display, Cookies for $80 + free shipping, padding      Walmart :  Sony 1080p Wireless Media Player w/ Netflix, 3-Foot HDMI for $50 + free shipping          Entertainment            goHastings : Xbox 360 Kinect Sensor with Kinect Adventures $99.99 with Free Shipping              Neither Consumer Reports nor The Consumerist receive anything in exchange for featuring these deals; the posts are intended to be purely informational. These deals are often fleeting, with prices changing or products becoming unavailable as the day progresses.         These posts are not an endorsement of the featured products or the Web sites that sell them—though some of the sites may be included, and recommended, in our  Ratings of retailers for computers  and  other major electronics  (both available to subscribers). Price shouldn't be your only criterion. Be wary of lower-priced deals that seem  too good to be true , and check return policies for restocking fees and other gotchas.        For general buying advice for many of the products on sale above, check out our  free Buying Guides .     
         Visa will roll out its V.me online payment service early next year. The company, which announced plans for the service in March, has also launched a developer program to help merchants incorporate its payment systems into their web sites and other products.      Like PayPal and similar services from Google, Amazon and others, V.me will allow consumers to save their credit-card information and make purchases on sites that support the service without re-entering the data or sharing it with those merchants. The company also plans to add mobile services, donation tools and the ability to let individual users send and receive money.       As VentureBeat points out, competing with eBay-owned PayPal won't be easy, even for a company with Visa's large footprint and banking-industry clout:      Competitor PayPal is on pretty strong footing, however, with 12 million monthly users for virtual gaming goods. It has passed 100 million overall active users and raked in $1 billion for eBay in this year's second quarter. Not to mention it has its own developer community, with a big push from eBay to pay attention to that community. The company formed X.Commerce, which has been slowly rolling out new ways for developers to play with eBay's e-commerce solutions.       Visa launches PayPal competitor V.me with developer community to back it up  [VentureBeat]    V.me  [Official Site]       PREVIOUSLY :    Does Visa Have The PayPal-Killing Card In Its Wallet?              
         Some 42.5 million Americans will travel 50 miles or more from home this Thanksgiving, according to projecttions by AAA, representing the first significant increase this year in holiday travel, as well as a slight increase over last year's Thanksgiving holday.        Of those 42.5 million Americans planning to travel for the fast-approaching holiday weekend, approximately 38.2 million say they will take to the road to reach their destination. That represents 90 percent of overall projected number of Thankgiving travelers. And despite increased airfare, the number of travelers taking to the skies is also expected to increase. Almost 3.4 million air travelers (eight percent of total holiday travelers) will fly during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, representing a 1.8 percent increase from 2010.      When compared to last year, the more than 42 million people planning to travel for the upcoming holdiay, represents a four percent increase from the 2010 total of 40.9 million.       “As consumers weigh the fear of economic uncertainty and the desire to create lasting family memories this holiday, more Americans are expected to choose family and friends over frugality,” said Bill Sutherland, vice president, AAA Travel Services.       Still, the projected 42.5 million people who plan represents a slow climb back from the decade-low number of 37.8 million who traveled for Thanksgiving in 2008. And the number of people expected to travel this year is still below historical averages.        Do you plan to travel for Thanksgiving? If so, how far from home are you going?       AAA Projects 42.5 Million Americans Will Travel This Thanksgiving, Four Percent More Than Last Year  [AAA]     
         Search on &#8220;Black Friday ads" and you&#8217;ll find a number of websites competing to be the first to feature online versions of the holiday shopping circulars that arrive in your newspaper. But now retailers are beating those shopping sites at their own game by posting sales on Facebook and Twitter. So far we&#8217;ve seen bargains on coffeemakers and other small appliances but some of the prices are so low we wonder if you&#8217;re getting a good deal or a raw deal.      In our survey of  16,000 Consumer Reports subscribers  who made recent appliance purchases,  Amazon.com  and  Abt Electronics , which also ships nationwide, were judged best for price, selection and all-around experience. Our subscribers also liked  QVC  for small appliances as well as their local independent dealers. We can&#8217;t vouch for all the appliances you&#8217;ll see on sale but here are some of Consumer Reports recent Best Buys. Use the Price & Shop feature on our Ratings charts to compare prices at a number of different retailers.        Coffeemakers     At prices ranging from $35 to $53, the  Mr. Coffee BVMC-SJX33GT  is a CR Best Buy. The brew performance of the 8- to 14-cup model was excellent and convenience and carafe handling was very good. When not on sale, the 12 drip coffeemakers on Consumer Reports recommended list range in price from $40 to $130. Pod coffeemakers typically cost a bit more with recommended models priced from $130 to $150.        Mixers     The  KitchenAid Classic  stand mixer is a perennial favorite and a CR Best Buy. We&#8217;ve seen prices ranging from $179 ( Lowes.com ) to $270. In Consumer Reports tests it was aces at whipping, mixing and kneading but our testers found it a bit noisy. The  Hamilton Beach Eclectrics  stand mixer we tested is also a CR Best Buy and ranges in price from $150 to $252. It didn&#8217;t knead as well as the KitchenAid but it was quieter. If you don&#8217;t want to spend three figures for a gift, the two CR Best Buy hand mixers can be had for less than $40.        Toasters and toaster ovens     At about $35, the  Hamilton Beach Digital 22502  two-slice toaster, a CR Best Buy, wasn&#8217;t the greatest thing since sliced bread but it toasted evenly and was a cinch to use. If you have more counter space, you might want to opt for a four-slice toaster or even a toaster oven. The  Cuisinart CPT-190  toaster, which ranges in price from $85 to $100, earned a CR Best Buy as did the  Oster TSSTTVMNDG  toaster oven, which at $75 to $97 was a bargain too. In addition to making good toast, it was very good at baking and broiling.        Cookware     Consumer Reports recommends 13 different sets of cookware that range in price from $160 to $540. But our CR Best Buy, the non-stick  EarthPan with Sand Flow , can be found for as little as $130 at both  Amazon.com  and  Walmart.com , according to our Price & Shop results. The 10-piece set cooked evenly, had sturdy handles and was easy to clean. If you prefer your cookware uncoated, the three sets we recommend range in price from $400 to $540.        Knives     The CR Best Buy of our knife sets was a  Ginsu Chikara , an eight-piece forged set that can be found online for as little as $60. Our testers said the knives were champs at cutting and the handles were comfortable. Consumer Reports also tested some knives endorsed by celebrity cooks Paula Deen and Rachel Ray but found they didn't make the cut.        Blenders     The  Ninja Master Prep Professional QB1004  blender was a whiz at crushing ice and making icy drinks and held up well after multiple ice-smashing sessions. You can find it online for $50 or less. Of the 11 blenders we recommend, it&#8217;s the least expensive. Compare that to the  Vita-Mix 5200 , which performs similarly but typically sells for $450. It&#8217;s one of our recommended models. We also recommended three immersion blenders, the CR Best Buy is the  Miallegro Professional MiTutto 9090 , which sells for $50 and includes several attachments.        Vacuum cleaners     An upright vacuum can cost as much as $900 or even more. But for $50 the  Dirt Devil Featherlite Bagless M085845  sold at Target was a good performer in our tests and a CR Best Buy. The 13-pound bagless upright has HEPA filtration and was excellent at removing pet hair, a vacuum&#8217;s toughest task. At that price, you can buy one for your second floor and avoid lugging your main vacuum up and down the stairs. Now, that's a gift.    
       Your  human capital  is just as important as your financial capital. In fact, it wouldn’t be a stretch to consider your human capital, your potential to become financially independent over time, more important than your net worth at any one particular time. Over the past few weeks, I’ve been writing in depth about ways to boost your human capital through education, experience, and particular approaches to life decisions. This is the final article in the series.     Assuming the stock market provides a average return of 8 percent per year over the long-term, the earlier you begin investing, the better you’ll be in the future. Thanks to the way returns compound upon each other, starting a few years earlier could be the difference between retiring comfortably and struggling on a fixed income. Of course, market performance in the future will have a great effect on your overall performance, but those who start early generally have a distinct advantage.    The same theory applies to building your human capital. “Start early” is generally the worst advice anyone can communicate because it’s impossible. Until scientists invent a time machine, by the time someone says to you, “You should have started earlier,” you’ve missed your opportunity. If the message of starting early get across, however, the philosophy can be used for other situations and can be passed along to others. For example, while I didn’t save any of my income until I was in my late twenties, now knowing that it’s important to start early, I can help my potential children understand this importance from an earlier age.     While many financial experts have succeeded in convincing people that it’s important to start saving and investing early to maximize the advantage offered by time, not many people talk about developing your human capital early.     High school    By the time you finish your first year of high school, you should be well on your way to a financially successful life by exploring your talents and interests, taking part in extra-curricular activities, and looking for opportunities to lead others. It sounds like a lot to ask of a fourteen-year-old kid, but if parents help steer children in the right direction without overloading them, these basic tenets will go far in helping the child develop into a successful adult.    Besides grade point averages and standardized test scores, the criteria that colleges use to evaluate potential students for acceptance, criteria which schools believe correlate to success, tend to be the same aspects that build human capital. Those extra-curricular activities, leadership roles, volunteer work, a diverse set of interests, and the ability to write an essay well all help a student convince an admissions board that he or she will thrive in the college environment.     College    The college experience varies from person to person. You could gain a lot of maturity between ages 18 and 21, or you could spend four years wasting your life like so many students away from their parents for the first time. I wouldn’t be interested in a lifestyle that involves keeping my head in text books twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, so this is not what I’m suggesting.     Take advantage of the opportunities your college offers you.  Meet people, get involved in organizations, gain some experience in your field, and determine where your passion lies. College is the perfect time to awaken your soul to the possibilities before you find yourself in a 40 to 80 hour-per-week job.    For most Consumerism Commentary readers, it’s too late to go back to being 15 years old or 18 years old to gain the human capital advantages they might have missed. The best one can do in this situation is to start right now.    In addition to starting early, I’ve offered nine tips for  boosting your human capital . If you haven’t started already, start now. If you are already on your way to ensuring you are less likely to have financial problems in the future, consider doing more.    Every day, take just a few minutes to do one thing that enhances your human capital. It can be as easy as working out for twenty minutes —  good health helps ensure you’ll have an ability to earn income longer  — or updating your LinkedIn profile to make your listing more appealing to clients. You can take a step further, too, by meeting up with a colleague for a mentoring session. If you spend some time each day to think about what you can do to make yourself more valuable to the world, you’ll be putting yourself in a much better position in the future.    Photo:  o5com     The original version of this article,  Boost Your Human Capital: Start Early , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      For my own finances, I’ve been a fan of  credit cards with cash back programs . Some financial experts advise avoiding credit cards completely, even those cards that offer rewards like cash back. I’ve never been a fan of this approach — again, for my own finances — because I see a credit cards as just another tool for personal finance. A hammer is inherently neither good nor evil; it’s a tool that someone can use to fix a roof or to send another person to the hospital.     For a large portion of consumers, credit cards cause trouble. That may not be a reason to avoid credit cards entirely, as consumers can learn how to use credit cards effectively. Those of us who do believe we use cash back credit cards responsibly, paying bills in full every month, never paying interest, and buying only what we can afford, are relatively comfortable with the use of this tool, but even the best of us are subject to issuers’ traps.    Cash back credit card programs include traps that help issuers recover the cost of paying out benefits to their customers. While some traps can be avoided by managing finances closely, other traps take advantage of the psychological aspects of using plastic rather than cash. These traps can be more difficult to avoid, because consumers cannot control their subconscious tendencies. Here are the cash back traps to avoid, if you can.    1. Credit card users spend more     The process of taking cash out of your wallet and handing that money to another person is a very deliberate activity, both physically and mentally. Parting with cash has psychological ramifications. In most people, particularly those who best understand the value of having money saved, the act of giving the cash away triggers the same reaction as a painful activity. Spending money and pain are linked in the brain.    When you use credit cards, you add a buffer between your cash and the process of parting with it. Spenders are less likely to hesitate and less likely to get that twinge of pain associated with handing over bills and coins. People familiar with computer science would call this a layer of abstraction. You’re controlling your money by using a representation of that money, not the cash itself, and that makes the process feel better. In addition, cards with a rewards program like cash back encourage higher spending, because that cash back is seen as a reward that can be maximized by spending more.    Avoid this by making a concerted effort to buy only what you could afford with cash at any time.    2. Late fees and interest negate any cash back benefits          If you have debt that you carry over from one month to the next, forget about cash back rewards programs. The interest you pay eliminates any benefit you may receive from the issuer. Even if you manage to earn more cash back than interest you pay, consider that cash back credit cards often have higher interest rates than cards without any benefit program. While issuers advertise their cash back cards heavily, these cards should be used only by individuals who pay the bill in full every month. Late fees also negate cash back, so never pay the bill late.    Accidents and emergencies happen. It only takes one to erase a year’s worth of cash back. If you use a cash back credit card, make sure you tell your issuer to withdraw your payment in full every month, and make sure you have enough money in your bank account to cover your credit card bill at the right time. Have an  emergency fund  to cover yourself if you lose your job and can’t pay your credit card bill from your income.    3. Rotating categories and opt-in requirements    Over the past year, credit card issuers have increased their cash back percentages in an effort to win back customers who miss the 5 percent cash back on all purchases during reward programs’ heyday. This time, the higher benefits come with a catch. With tiered cash back, where some spending earns 1 percent, some earns 3 percent, and some earns 5 percent, issuers have become trickier. In many cases, the highest level of cash back is available only certain categories of spending, like gasoline or groceries, and the categories for which the companies make the cash back available rotate every three months. You have to pay attention if you want to keep track of how much cash back you should be earning.    Furthermore, some issuers require you to opt in to the highest cash back tier when the categories change every quarter. If you forget to contact the issuer, you don’t earn the higher percentage.     4. Incorrectly categorized purchases    This has happened to me as well as many Consumerism Commentary readers who have shared similar experiences. If you shop around to various gas stations to save money, and your card offers a higher cash back on gasoline purchases, you may not get your full cash back. While stations with brands like Exxon/Mobile, Sunoco, and Shell are almost always categorized correctly, some of the smaller stations are not. Issuers maintain a list of vendors and their categories for earning cash back, but smaller retailers often don’t make the list.     If you’re in a period where gasoline purchases earn 5 percent and all other purchases earn 1 percent, if you shop at a less-expensive, off-brand gasoline station to save money, you may not receive the 5 percent cash back you should. Issuers are inflexible, and customer service representatives will often say that if a retailer is not categorized correctly, there’s nothing they can do to credit you the full cash back.     5. Cash back can be difficult to claim    One of the first cash back cards I used on a regular basis was the Citi Dividend Platinum Select, with which I earned 5 percent cash back on all purchases. Those were great days. But retrieving the cash I earned wasn’t a perfect process. After earning $50, I was able to request that Citi send a check to the address on my account to cover my cash back. If I were to close my account before reaching the $50 cash back threshold, I would forfeit my cash back.    6. Cash back isn’t always cash back    File this under misleading advertising. If a credit card issuer is offering cash back, I expect to receive cash back at the rate that is advertised, like 2 percent. That should mean that for every $100 I spend, I earn $2 cash back. I don’t expect that the cash back be in the form of a gift card for a retailer. Many issuers have improved their labeling of these programs, but some problems still exist.     Some issuers still use the term “cash back” when referring to a statement credit. If a credit card company credits your statement once a year with the cash back you earn for the previous twelve months, you haven’t earned cash back that you can use to deposit into savings, invest for the future, or buy yourself something additional. The issuer is keeping the cash back in its own hands by applying your cash back to your account. Assuming your statement credit is $300, you can take $300 of your own cash that you would have applied towards your credit card bill and use that to increase your savings or buy something else, but the idea that you’re not receiving any real cash back from a cash back program is bothersome.    Additionally, if you close your account before your annual cash back credit, you might be forfeiting the portion of the benefit you earned.    7. Earning maximums and thresholds    With your favorite cash back card, or one that looks great on the surface, you may find that the fine print limits your cash back earning potential. Some of the highest cash back rates, particularly those 5 percent rotating categories, are limited. The highest rates may only apply to the first $1,000 in spending — or less. The “biggest cash back credit card” that you may hear about in a competitor’s commercials is the  Discover More Card . You can earn 5% cash back in rotating categories each quarter, but the 5% is limited to the first $300 spent in that category. That means that the most you can earn from the accelerated tier is $15 each quarter. Your spending in these categories may not exceed $300 over the course of three months, but if it does, you’ll be leaving money on the table.    With some cards, like the  Blue Cash Everyday from American Express , you don’t earn a higher cash back percentage until your spending $6,500 in a year. Purchases on the card in the highest tier after that point earn 5 percent, but until you reach that threshold, your purchases earn only 1.25%. In the lower tier, you can earn 1.25% after reaching the threshold, but only 0.5% beforehand.    8. Changing terms    Thanks to the  Credit CARD Act of 2009 , issuers have less flexibility to change your credit card terms without much notice. Issuers do have options if they want to move customers from a great cash back program to a less impressive program. The most used option is replacing one card type with another. When Citibank replaced the Dividend Platinum Select MasterCard with the Dividend World MasterCard, the cash back structure changed to be less beneficial for the customer. Even customers who opted out of the switch, which Citi approached as if it were mandatory for customers to accept, the cash back program was eventually reduced.    The benefits spenders receive today can change at any time. Credit card issuers react quickly to market forces; when one issuer offers a higher benefit, other issuers often respond within a week to remain competitive. The same reaction can happen on the opposite direction.    9. Some retailers are excluded    If your card earns 5 percent cash back at groceries stores, but you shop for groceries at Costco, Target, Walmart, or some other store that’s not a pure grocery store or supermarket, you won’t earn that higher tier of cash back. In fact, some of the big warehouse stores are excluded from cash back programs altogether. Some of these stores, often offering products at a discount compared to other stores, as well as small retailers who can’t afford to pay the higher interchange fees associated with some rewards cards, ban the use of cash back credit cards in their stores.     Shoppers may not be aware of this no cash back requirement until they have finished shopping. At the cashier, they are given the opportunity to buy all the products they collected from around the store with a card that offers no cash back, to pay for their items with cash, or leave the store without making their purchase. Most shoppers will simply forgo the cash back and buy the products anyway, as that’s often a better option than considering the time spend in the store a waste and creating a necessity for shopping somewhere else.     10. Misleading conversion rates    As mentioned above, customers expect cash back programs to be straightforward. A 2 percent cash back rate should mean that every $100 earns $2 in pure cash. Some issuers make the conversion more complicated that it should be, by saying you can redeem your cash back for full value only through retail gift cards, and more flexible forms of rewards would cost more. For example, a $100 pre-paid debit card might cost $125 in cash back rewards.    This conversion obfuscation is aided by issuers who use a point system rather than a straight cash back system. Always be wary of point-based benefits if your goal is to earn cash back. When credit cards use points, they add a layer of abstraction between your reward earnings and your cash back, and issuers can do whatever they like with those points. Once you earn points, credit card companies can change their value relative to cash or change the price of the rewards for redemption.    Although some of the best maximizers can find ways to earn the most cash back from their spending, and some of the most focused work own a combination of credit cards to earn the highest cash back on all categories of spending at any one time, credit card issuers still have the upper hand. One mistake with a payment and you can throw away all the cash back you’ve earned in a year. You may misunderstand the complicated terms or forget to opt in to this quarter’s highest tier. Or, just like a large portion of credit card users, you may spend more than you would otherwise in search of a relatively small reward. Cash back credit cards are tools best used by those who have been trained to recognize these traps and fight the psychological impulses that allow spending to increase when using one of these tools.    The original version of this article,  10 Cash Back Credit Card Traps , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      I’ve been tracking my net worth and keeping my finances updated in personal finance management software since July 2003. I’ve done this mainly for myself. Posting my finances online helps make the numbers real. I use these monthly reports to hold myself accountable. If I write publicly about spending more in a budget category than I should, I have no one to blame myself if, at the end of the following month, I still have the same problem. I would have to face the judgment of readers who see my lack of progress. By keeping my finances public, I try to hold my money-related decisions to a high standard.    Over the past eight and a half years, this technique has helped me gain financial independence, combined with a thriving business. But this will be the final month I share my balances with this much detail. I’m moving into the next phase of my financial journey, and this requires taking back some of my willingness to bare all for an audience. I will still share quite a bit, more than most readers would expect, but the familiar balance sheet will be replaced with a different accountability measure.    Another reason to move away from posting a monthly balance sheet for accountability is the fact that the swings from month to month have more to do with stock market performance than day-to-day money management decisions. When I had very little money invested and my expenses were close to my income, every decision I made could have a strong effect on my finances. That is not the case today. Just like my need for tracking every cent has been relinquished as my budget began to allow more freedom, my daily spending has a smaller effect than decisions pertaining to the larger picture, like my investment portfolio allocation and diversification. I’ll be writing more about my investment choices in the future.    In October, my investments recovered. This contributed to an increase in my net worth. Continue reading to see the numbers.               Note that I took my business accounts out of this report a few months ago. Business income was healthy again in October, but that’s not reflected in these numbers.    If you’ve been following Consumerism Commentary, you should recognize the different lines included in my balance sheet. “Cash in banks” includes all the checking and savings accounts I own, mostly  high-yield savings accounts . I added a new savings account in October, and it wasn’t exactly what I wanted to do. I needed a signature guarantee in person, a service banks and brokerages often provide. I walked into my local Wells Fargo branch, but the representative had no idea what I was asking for. The next closest bank location was a Chase branch, so I walked in to ask whether they could provide a signature guarantee.     At Chase, the representative knew what I was asking for and was able to provide the signature guarantee for free — but only for Chase customers. Despite the proximity to  Bank Transfer Day , I opened a new account at Chase with a $100 cash deposit. In order for this checking account to remain free, I needed to initiate a $500 per month direct deposit or maintain a $1,500 balance. I covered both bases.     I’m not happy with the idea of adding yet another bank account, but I’ve also spent some time during the past few months canceling many of the savings accounts I’ve opened over the past few years as tests for writing reviews on Consumerism Commentary. I closed or zeroed out my HSBC Advance account, Ally Bank accounts, Everbank accounts, Sallie Mae account, Discover Bank account, and Zions Bank account. I’ll be canceling more accounts as I continue to  simplify my finances .    My investments line includes a few accounts for stock trading, mostly unused, as well as an individual brokerage account at Vanguard. My plan for this month is to look into moving my investments around so this account includes the most tax-efficient investments. I’d rather have tax-free investments in this account to reduce my tax liability, while leaving the less tax-efficient investments in retirement accounts like 401(k)s and IRAs.    Those 401(k) plans and IRAs are included in the retirement line in the above balance sheet. For the Honda Civic line, I’ve just been reducing the value of my car by $100 every month. This may be something I shouldn’t include in the report, but for a while, this was my most valuable asset, and since I could sell my car in an emergency, I thought it might be worthwhile to track. I occasionally check the car’s value in Edmunds or Kelley Blue Book. I don’t see selling this car until it costs more to maintain than it is worth. I’ve put very little money into the Honda Civic besides regular maintenance.    THe amount in my credit cards category is paid off every month. I’ve been using primarily a  Chase Continental Airlines OnePass Plus Card , and I’ve used the miles earned for upgrades. With all the traveling I’ve done this year, I”m very close to earning “Silver” Elite OnePass status in Continental’s (and United’s) frequent flyer program, but I might end the year without crossing the threshold of 25,000 Elite Qualification Miles. (With the OnePass Plus card, the miles you earn for every purchase do not help you qualify for a higher frequent flyer tier.)    As I mentioned above, my plan for November is to simplify my finances by reducing the number of open accounts. Next month, I’ll report November’s progress and review my finances as of the end of the month, but I’ll be changing the format. The monthly financial update is an integral part of this website, so I will find a way to continue this tradition despite the change of relevance.    The original version of this article,  Personal Balance Sheet, October 2011 ($373,552, +9.2%) , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      I’ve avoided writing about Black Friday this year. In the community I follow, promoting the day after Thanksgiving for shopping has gotten completely out of hand. I wrote an article for PC World a few years ago,  The Insider’s Guide to Black Friday Bargains , where the tips are still relevant for today’s shoppers. I’m not going to write a new article every year about how to find the best Black Friday deals.    As if Black Friday weren’t enough of a marketing scheme, a few years ago consumers were blessed to receive Cyber Monday, yet another day of hype encouraging people to buy more. I’m not always anti-consumerism, but I just find every year’s increased holiday sale hype, designed as a last-ditch, end-of-year effort to make up for poor sales since January 1, annoying. Doorbusters, bait-and-switch, and worst of all, and  crazed Wal-Mart shoppers who are willing to kill others  just to be first to grab some sale item that will be worth a tiny portion of its sale price in five months, make me embarrassed to be an American consumer.     The opposite approach is to put faith in  Buy Nothing Day . The message of Buy Nothing Day is good, but like any temporary boycott, it just time-shifts spending; what you don’t spend on the day after Thanksgiving you’ll likely spend the next day. And if a sale expires, you’ll spend more.    The worst thing to come out of the holiday hype is “Small Business Saturday.” (Let’s just stop naming the days following Thanksgiving, also known as Turkey Thursday.) This is American Express’s effort to get consumers to patronize local stores in favor of national chains. On the surface, this isn’t a bad idea. Support business owners in the community by visiting smaller retail establishments who otherwise have a difficult time competing with large box stores like Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Target, and Home Depot. Your neighborhood appliance or hardware store generally charge more money for the same products offered by national chains because small stores have little leverage to negotiate with wholesalers. Working with a small business based in the community you live, having a friendly face who can help answer your questions, and building a relationship with a business owner might be strong enough reasons to settle for a higher priced item.    This is coming from American Express. Many small business owners simply can’t afford to accept payments using American Express cards. It costs more money for a retailer to accept most American Express cards than most Visa or MasterCard credit cards. When you do use your American Express cards at a small business, you are not helping the store as much as you would if you were to pay with cash. American Express interchange fees can take an unhealthy bite out of a small business’s profits. Also, unlike Visa and MasterCard, who generally split merchant fees with banks that issue their cards, American Express cards are generally not issued by third parties, and the company keeps the entire interchange fee.    The “Small Business Saturday” campaign was not created for the good of the overall economy. American Express offers this message, “The 2nd annual Small Business Saturday® is a day dedicated to supporting small businesses on one of the busiest shopping weekends of the year,” but the day supports American Express, which is not a small business. Through this campaign, American Express is offering small businesses that accept their cards to prominently display an advertisement that offers a $25 credit to any customer who uses an American Express card to purchase items totaling $25 or more at the location. There is little in this campaign other than self-interest and self-promotion on American Express’s part.    Is this bad? It’s hard to say. If you want to do your part to support local businesses that are in danger of closing partly due to the high prices credit card companies charge, shop there but pay cash. Forget about the 1% cash back or less you can earn, paid for by the small business owners. The $25 credit in the offer doesn’t support small businesses because this isn’t extra money that can be used to purchase more in a store. It’s a statement credit, designed to thank card holders for using American Express and requiring retailers that accept the cards to pay more to AmEx through fees.    American Express is, thanks to capitalism, allowed to promote almost anything it likes in order to increase profit. That’s how corporations compete, build value for shareholders, and help upper middle class households stay upper middle class and wealthy households increase their wealth. The company reports that small businesses saw an increase in sales due to last year’s Small Business Saturday campaign (but note that they didn’t see the same large increase in profits). Look past the marketing messages at who is most benefiting from this campaign.    When the sun goes supernova and engulfs the Earth, marketers will promote the event as the hottest party since the big bang.    The original version of this article,  American Express’s Small Business Saturday , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Today on the  Consumerism Commentary Podcast , Bryan speaks with Dinah Sanders, author of   Discardia: More Life, Less Stuff .     Discardia is a holiday, a philosophy, and now a book that explains why life is more stressful as a result of having too much stuff, or the wrong kind of stuff. The book is filled with advice and soundproof logic that can help you make room for awesomeness.     Consumerism Commentary Podcast    Discardia: S06E05 / 157   	   		  		   		  		  		  		  		  		   			   			 			  		 		  	      jQuery(document).ready(function($) {  	$('#wp_mep_1').mediaelementplayer({  		m:1  		  		,features: ['playpause','current','progress','duration','volume','tracks','fullscreen']  		,audioWidth:400,audioHeight:  	});  });         Download  –  RSS  –  iTunes      
       This is a guest article by Jon the Saver, a personal finance blogger at  Free Money Wisdom .  His mission is to spread financial wisdom and help people get their financial lives under control.  In his down time he loves a mean game of Scrabble and spending quality time with his fiancee.     I’m probably the only personal financial blogger who works in the construction industry.  It may sound like a strange combination, but it actually makes sense.  There are so many financial aspects to construction, it blows my mind.    To give you some background, I currently work for a Fortune 500 general contractor in the heavy civil industry.  We work on large scale projects like highways, bridges, and power plants.  I graduated college with a degree in Construction Management and love what I do.  How many people do you know can say that?  Well, I can and I’m proud of it!  I love the ability to go out on a project site and then be able to come back indoors.  I would hate cubicle life and feel like I’m wired for construction.     To say that the construction industry has revolutionized my personal finances is pretty bold.  As bold as it may be, it’s true.  I have always had big picture personal finance principles as my foundation, but construction has really taught me a lot about personal finance, some of it from studying long hours in college and some of it from getting my work boots dirty in the field.    Let’s dig our boots in and explore this revolution.    1. Execution without planning will result in failure    You can try to execute, but if you don’t have proper planning, it’s doomed to fail.  In construction this happens when someone doesn’t do his job and forgets to plan accordingly.  This could be as simple as a missing checklist or as serious as not ordering enough concrete.  Another big one is planning for safety.  You never want injuries on your job site.  If you don’t engineer out the risks of an operation, how can you be confident in your execution?     Effect on finances:  This is everything from proper retirement planning to education on personal finances.  I mean, why do you read this blog? Probably because you want to plan for your future.  Planning is everything.  If you have a good plan, you’re destined for success.    2. 80/20 rule applies to your finances    I’m a huge believer in the 80/20 rule, also known as  the Pareto Principle .  I first heard of this rule from a professor in college.  The basic idea is that 80% of your results come from 20% of your work.  More and more I’m finding this to be true. There are only a handful of decisions that are really going to affect you on a construction job.  Things like a concrete pour are extremely critical, whereas a meeting on the door paint may be pushed to another week.      Effect on finances:  Very few of your decisions will really have a big effect on your finances.  I would say the top two decisions that fall into the 80/20 rule are living a debt-free life and saving 15 to 25 percent of your income for retirement.  Now, there are others, but those two come to mind right now.  Take the 80/20 rule and apply it to your financial life. You might even start to feel less stressed.    3. Where are you headed without a schedule?    A construction project is 100 percent schedule-driven.  Without an organized schedule, how will you know what will be happening the next week?  How will you know when to mobilize big equipment?  These issues are solved by keeping an in-depth schedule and maintaining it.  Most of our meetings on a job site are schedule-related, and there is good reason for that.     Effect on finances:  Your retirement timeline will determine what your savings goals and personal schedule looks like.  Knowing this timeline will also tell you what percentages you want to be in various asset classes for stocks and bonds.  For example, a 20 year old should be invested in 20 percent bonds and 80 percent stocks.  Now, take a 50 year old.  This person would want to be invested in 50 percent bonds and 50 percent stocks.  Knowing your schedule has a huge impact on your investment decisions.    4. Know your costs    On a construction project, knowing your costs will make or break your bottom line.  Everything down to the office supplies need to be accounted for.  Not only is this a good practice for keeping good records, but it ensures that you get paid by the owner.  Without a record of your costs, your boat is going to sink and sink fast.     Effect on finances:  When you relate this concept to your finances, this means keeping track of all expenses and where your money is going.  Knowing where your money is going is crucial to saving effectively and ensuring you don’t fall into the trap of debt.  If you don’t know where to start for tracking your costs, I recommend  Mint.com .    5. Protect your assets    As a general contractor, we own much of our heavy equipment, everything from bulldozers to mobile cranes.  Part of the responsibility of owning these pieces of equipment is to protect our assets.  We maintain this equipment and always keep the moving parts up to date.  A broken bulldozer is useless in the eyes of a general contractor.     Effect on finances:  This one is more human related.  Part of personal finances is  keeping your body and mind healthy  so you can enjoy your retirement or enjoy your hard earned money now!  I’m always trying to explain this to people.  Your body is your greatest asset.  Without it, you’re in for some serious repercussions.  Eat healthy and exercise on a weekly basis.  You want to enjoy your “glory years” right?    Who knew that construction had so many lessons that you could apply to personal finances?  I hope you enjoyed this post.  Now you know it’s not so crazy to be in construction and love personal finance!    Photo:  bucklava     The original version of this article,  Construction Revolutionized My Finances , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      A few years ago, Netflix and Wal-Mart allegedly entered an agreement where Wal-Mart agreed to exist the DVD rental business and promote Netflix’s service and Netflix would not sell new DVDs to compete with Wal-Mart. A group of Netflix customers have banded together to enter a class action anti-trust lawsuit against the two companies for this practice, which allegedly allowed Netflix to gain dominance and raise customers’ fees.    Wal-Mart has agreed to settle the lawsuit. The company will pay a settlement fee of $27,250,000, with some of the proceeds going to affected customers. Netflix, on the other hand, has not yet stopped fighting the lawsuit.      You are included in the Wal-Mart settlement class if you live in the United States or Puerto Rico and you paid a subscription fee to Netflix to rent DVDs online anytime from May 19, 2005 through September 2, 2011. Any customer who had only a free Netflix trial does not qualify. You may receive a dollar or two from this settlement, but in order to receive your benefit, you must  file a claim . You can receive the payment in cash or a gift card.    The $27 million from Wal-Mart will be divided between lawyers, who will receive up to 25% of the payment plus additional costs of up to $1.7 million, administration expenses, and fees to class representatives at $5,000 a piece. The remainder will be divided equally between all settlement class members who file a claim. To get an idea of how many customers might need to split an estimated $18 million, Netflix had 24 million customers in the United States at the end of September.    Netflix is still fighting the lawsuit. They might eventually settle, and if they do, customers who would qualify for benefits include any person or entity in the United States that paid a subscription fee to Netflix anytime from May 19, 2005 to September 30, 2010. If there are benefits to receive, class members will not need to take any action. Any class members who would like to excise themselves from the lawsuit or potential settlement and reserve the right to sue Netflix regarding this issue will need to mail a letter to opt out.    The official website for the Netflix Wal-Mart class action lawsuit regarding DVD sales is onlinedvdclass.com.    The original version of this article,  Netflix Wal-Mart Class Action Lawsuit , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      American Express has always been great in varying their credit card offers to business owners.  Whether a business owner’s priority is travel accommodations, spending power or saving money, there’s a credit or charge card designed to help out.   The  TrueEarnings Business Card from Costco and American Express  fits into the saving money category, as it’s the only business card around offering 4% cash back on gasoline purchases.       All business owners of the TrueEarnings Business Card from Costco and American Express will receive a 0% introductory APR for six months. After the introductory period, the interest rate reverts to a standard APR of 15.24% variable.  The cash advance APR is 21.24% variable and the default APR is a pricey 27.24% variable so avoid cash advances and pay bills on time to prevent default.    The TrueEarnings® Business Card’s primary feature is cash back, and the card offers competitive cash back rates, listed below. Cardholders will not be subject to cash back limits, and the cash earned never expires.        4% for annual gasoline purchases of up to $6,000 (1% thereafter).    2% for restaurants and travel.    1% everywhere else, including Costco.       Every business is entitled to additional perks and benefits as owners of an American Express business credit cards. Here are some of the noteworthy benefits.       No annual fee with your paid Costco membership.    Save up to 10% automatically on business expenses from FedEx, Hertz, and more with OPEN Savings.    Assistance with emergency card replacement, check-cashing, and hotel check-in.       Few business credit cards offer the full package. These tend to be big money makers for card issuers, whether through a high interest rate or annual fee. The  TrueEarnings Business Card from Costco and American Express  seems to be one of the few business cards offering a solid rewards program with a low APR, and, possibly most importantly, no annual fee.    Consider enhancing your business by signing up for the TrueEarnings® Business Card from Costco and American Express today.           The original version of this article,  TrueEarnings Business Card from Costco and American Express Review , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Last week, a photograph by Andreas Gurksy,  Rhein II,  was sold at auction for $4,338,500 to an anonymous buyer. The record-breaking sale allowed Gursky to reclaim fame as the artist whose work has claimed the highest price paid for a photograph. This auction was a secondary market sale. As in most art auctions commanding high prices and press attention, the artist sees little if any financial benefit.    What do you think of the image? Is it art? Is it art you would consider to be worth $4 million? $1 million?         It wasn’t this lowly jpeg that was sold. Seeing the print — considered a very important part of the art of photography — is an experience in itself. To see this work in person, you would be gazing at a print eight feet by twelve feet. Even today’s relatively advanced digital cameras, devices used by professional wedding photographers and amateurs like me around the world, wouldn’t be able to produce a print that size with quality and resolution. This image was most likely produced with a large format camera using analog film.     There’s only one way to determine the value of a work of art: offer it to a wide audience of potential art buys and determine what at least one of them would be willing to pay to take it home. Looking beyond the simple supply-and-demand answer, any piece of art is able to fetch a certain price at auction due to only a few factors. Some aspects moving a price aren’t related to the specific piece of art as much as the artist.        Buyers look for a works by photographers who have a history of creating art in demand by galleries and collectors.    Photographers who were trained by other artists who have been successful are also rewarded for their potential.    In most cases, buyers believe that the art will be worth more in the future, and view the purchase as an investment.       Some reasons behind a price relate to the process of creating the art. It’s only recently that photography has become accepted as art, color photography even more recently, and many artists still consider photographs with digital manipulation in editing software like Photoshop not art at all. Photography still has a long way to go before it’s fully accepted alongside oil painting and sculpture as art. That’s reflected in value as well; while this $4 million price for  Rhein II  is a nice sum, it falls short of the  Running Man I  sculpture by Alberto Giacometti, which  fetched a sale price of $104.3 million  recently.     The fact that this image was captured using a large format camera, a process that is significantly more involved than pointing and shooting, helps to add to the value, but many photographers, particularly landscape artists and architectural photographers, still use large format cameras. The type of camera cannot be the sole reason driving the value of art, but it is an important factor when an artist is striving for the best quality possible.     Although this image looks simple, a lot of planning went into its creation. Artists carefully plan the time and place, bring the right equipment, and without a digital camera, do not have the luxury of taking a flurry of snapshots to choose the best image of one hundred on a memory card. Often, a work of art is part of a series or a study on a particular theme, and in the case of  Rhein II,  the photograph falls within a series about the river in Germany.    Ken Rockwell, a respected but divisive photographer who has one of the most popular websites about the art, has this to say about the photograph.     It is valuable because it is art, not just a photo. Rules are worthless. If [Gurksy] was just a photographer instead of an artist, he would have been crippled by the nonexistent “rule of thirds” myth, and put the horizon someplace else. In his case, the horizon slams right through the middle, which adds to the power by giving a sense of unease. Our minds ask “what’s up with this? This is so barren and empty; where is this place?”    Likewise, if it’s not captured on film, it is not art. Artists create art, not photographers. Artists may choose to work in photography, but being an artist is what matters above all…    If shot with a digital Nikon or Canon like amateur photographers, it would not have been art. If he used a zoom lens or many modern prime lenses, their distortion would have subtly curved the lines, weakening and destroying the artist’s work.       Ken doesn’t point out that Gursky did digitally manipulate the image after making the capture. The view portrayed by the image above doesn’t exist in nature. Gursky removed people, dogs, and a building from the captured image to create the art.    Nevertheless, the image is so simple that it looks like something anyone can capture, standing beside any river in the world on any dreary day. One nature of art is the ability to stir emotions in a spectator, even if that emotion is anger in response to a sale price, frustration that an image of mostly straight lines and solid colors can be considered art, jealousy that another photographer’s images wouldn’t fetch such a price, confusion about why it’s acceptable for some digitally manipulated images to be considered art while others aren’t, or questioning whether the image is art at all.    This describes the industry reaction to the sale. The Luminous Landscape forums are  buzzing with comments  about this sale and the image from professional photographers — mostly commercial photographers who dabble with artistic photography, specializing in medium and large format cameras.     Why spend so much money on art?    With so many problems in the world, why spend $4 million on one piece of art rather than using that money to build a school or feed starving children? This is a fair question to ask. At this high level of sophisticated art acquisition, there is a big emphasis on the investment aspect of art. With the photographer still living and with photographic art still being rare compared to other visual art methods, there is a good possibility of the value of this work increasing over the very long term.     Although it’s common to question the intent of purchasing a work of art for $4 million, investors who dedicate the same amount of money to a company to become an owner of that company usually won’t face the same questions about the virtue of their investment. Both buying art and buying a company are capitalistic endeavors, but while the value of a company can be easily justified by looking at a set of financial reports, the art is more difficult to rationalize. Regardless of the reasons, the value of a company or a work of art is whatever someone is willing to pay.    By investing in art, it sends a signal that art, in general, is worth society’s attention. Art is an important part of civilized society, and both reacts to and inspires thought that drives a society forward.    Photo: Andreas Gursky/Christie’s Images, Ltd., 2011    NPR ,  Seattle PI ,  Ken Rockwell     The original version of this article,  The $4 Million Photograph: How Do You Value Art? , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      You’ll never reach the top level in Abraham Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, self-actualization, if you concern yourself with your possessions. If you focus on acquiring gadgets, showering your children with toys, or achieving other materialistic pursuits, if you do so while neglecting the pursuit of including satisfying experiences in your life, you can never reach your full potential.     Even thinking about experiences beyond base needs is a luxury when abiding by Maslow’s theory, because pursuing fulfilling experiences requires discretionary income or available cash. Anyone who hasn’t been able to meet the lower-level requirements in the hierarchy may need to devote all resources to health and safety. For those of us in the developed world who have benefited from a society that allows successful people to do as they choose with their financial surplus, we often face questions about how to spend that money with an eye towards increasing happiness.     As I’ve found myself in a more comfortable financial situation over the last decade — and that comfort comes from an increased income and an ability to save for the future without sacrificing too much of my present — I’ve begun trying to find more ways to use surplus income (after meeting savings goals) to enjoy my life today. Financial writers often get caught up with the idea that people need to save as much money as possible for the future, but once there is some comfort with planning, there has to be an opportunity to enjoy life today.    Once my finances were on a solid path, I decided I was comfortable increasing today’s expenses. The gateway for me was most likely moving into a new apartment. If my only income came from my day job, I might not have been able to comfortably move from a small apartment to a nicer, larger apartment without making sacrifices somewhere else. By moving into the newer apartment, I recognized that my income stream outside of my day job would be fairly steady, and that I had an emergency fund for back-up in the event of a disaster. I also accumulated things. With my day job, I was able to afford cable again, but with extra income, I was able to justify high-definition service and a new, high-definition television.     I was able to afford to buy cameras, lenses, and other photography equipment (several of which I still purchased used to save money), and to explore this hobby further. This gets into the topic at hand: experiences vs. things. While photography equipment consists of things, they are items that allow me to explore a hobby — or possibly a future business — and create experiences for myself. I attended classes at the local arts council to further develop my skills.    A study from 2003 building on prior research about materialism explains that using money to acquire experiences increases long-term happiness than using money to acquire objects. Here are some of the results:     As anticipated, respondents asked to evaluate an experiential purchase indicated that it made them happier than did those asked to evaluate a material purchase. Respondents also indicated that experiential purchases were better financial investments than material purchases. Participants indicated that, compared with material purchases, experiential purchases made them happier, contributed more to their happiness in life, and represented money better spent. Respondents were also less inclined to say that the money spent on experiences could have been better spent elsewhere than the money spent on material possessions.      The authors of the 2003 study also offer suggestions for the causes of these results. Why do experiential purchases result in happiness more than material purchases?        Experiences are more open to positive reinterpretation.  As time passes, view of history becomes rosier.     Experiences are more central to one’s identity.  We are the sum of our experiences; people rarely identify with the items they’ve collected around their house as much as they identify with experiences like travel, operating their own business, and spending time with family.     Experiences have greater social value.  People like sharing and talking about their experiences, and this type of discussion fosters better relationships than talking about possessions.       A follow-up study in 2010 goes further to explain why experiences are more satisfying. This study found that it was easy to compare a purchased item, such as a high-definition television, with other similar items at the time of purchase and looking back. When comparing experiences, such as a family trip to Disney World, it’s much more difficult to make effective comparisons. Also, consumers are more likely to try to get the best deal when shopping for items with a strong field of comparable items but are more likely to  satisfice  when deciding to purchase an experience. Among other reasons, the researchers also determined that consumers are more likely to compare their material purchases with others’ purchases while have a difficult time doing the same for experiential purchases.    You may be looking forward to the holidays, wondering what type of gifts would make your family and friends happiest. You can always play to the utilitarian point of view by purchasing gifts that the recipient might need, but to have the greatest impact, consider finding a way to offer an experience that everyone would enjoy. The benefits might not be immediate, but an experience could create memories that outshine this year’s  hot Christmas toy  or latest Apple product for years to come.    Some experiential holiday gifts come to mind.        A weekend getaway.  Spend the weekend in a nearby city to save on transportation costs, and explore the town. This is something I did this past weekend in Philadelphia. It wasn’t a gift, but I am sure my girlfriend and I are going to remember our scary experience at the Eastern State Penitentiary for the rest of our lives.     Dinner and a Broadway show.  Good food and entertainment combine to make lasting memories that enhance happiness. For those who attend Broadway shows more than once a year, find a way to make it more memorable, perhaps with a backstage tour, VIP seating, or meeting the cast.     Long-distance travel.  It’s often less expensive to travel outside of the country than to travel across. Within the United States, there are almost endless opportunities for unique travel experiences as well. I will always remember the time I spent exploring Death Valley with my family.     An exciting activity.  My girlfriend seems interested in skydiving and hot-air-ballooning. I’m not a big fan of either of these activities because I would like to  live  for a long time, but I know these are activities that would make her happy if she were to live to tell me about them.       Consider leaving behind the material this holiday season and increasing someone’s long-term happiness by engaging in an activity or experience the memory of which will last a lifetime and become more favorable as time passes.    Photo:  comedynose    Journal of Personality and Social Psychology  2003  [pdf] and  2010  [pdf]    The original version of this article,  The Best Holiday Gift: A Shared Experience , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       It’s easy to focus on the personal policies that help improve your net worth immediately. Saving money, investing thoughtfully, and earning income affect your bottom line immediately. This view can be shortsighted occasionally. Focusing effort on your  personal human capital  can have a greater affect on your net worth over the course of the rest of your life. There are certain things anyone can do to improve the probability of being financially secure in the future. Focusing on your health can ensure you’ll have many income-earning years in the future.     There is  much about your finances you can control , but some circumstances, while they can be prepared for, are difficult to predict. The same is true about health. The best anyone can do is take good care of his mind and body to reduce the chance that health will be a major concern.      Get health insurance.  If you do not have a job that offers group health insurance and do not have access through a family member, finding coverage can be expensive. When I left my corporate job last year, I investigated prices for individual health coverage in New Jersey, and coverage similar to what I had at the company cost over one thousand dollars a month. Basic coverage was significantly less, but the benefits were not as comprehensive as what I had with my prior HMO plan. When I left the job, I had access to COBRA coverage, which extended the same coverage I had, but the premiums were no longer subsidized. The monthly fee was expensive, but manageable.      Don’t make any insurance payment mistakes.  If you are paying for health insurance coverage on your own, create an automated payment plan. One missed payment can give the health insurance company cause to cancel your coverage.     Reduce your intake of unhealthy food.  You don’t have to be a health fanatic. You can make some easy changes to your diet that should improve your health over the long term. For the most part, I no longer drink soda, opting for water instead. I don’t consider myself a health expert, and there are still many improvements to my diet that could result in increased health, but my plan for now is to be more conscious about the food I eat.      Stay active.  If you’re not an athlete, there’s no need to undertake a massive campaign for exercise. If you have a job that keeps you sitting at a desk for most of the day, though, consider compensating for a sedentary lifestyle by taking some time to keep your muscles active. I  joined a gym recently  and I’m still looking to find a routine that works for me. I have lost some weight and I feel healthier in general. The challenge is maintaining this with a work and travel schedule that keeps me busy, making it difficult for me to set aside regular time.    I don’t always recommend joining a gym, though. Some people may find the environment motivating, but for others, it will cost less money in the long run to  exercise independently, without a monthly fee. The most important aspect is to stay active, regardless of how it’s accomplished. Even if you find the best way for you to stay active is to join a gym, spending that money now to stay in shape could pay off in the future through improved health.     Get good sleep, quality and quantity.  I combined a good mattress, good sheets, and good pillows and was halfway towards improving my sleep. Throughout my life, I had never really achieved quality sleep. As far back as middle school, I often stayed up late at night computer programming and running a bulletin board system. This lasted throughout high school. In college, I spent my days in class, studying, and practicing, while spending many nights designing and maintaining websites. Later on, my time outside of my day jobs was also spent working on websites. All of this left very little time for sleep, and the sleep I did get wasn’t comfortable.    I didn’t have to spend a lot of money to fix this problem. Finding the right mattress took some time, but I’m satisfied with the one I have now. I discovered that “memory foam” pillows don’t bother my neck and back as other pillows. Someone introduced me to cotton jersey knit sheets, and I find these much more comfortable than other cotton or satin sheets. Once I was able to combine this with seven to eight hours of uninterrupted sleep every night, I wake up refreshed and I can get through everyday without becoming exhausted.    From  Forbes :     Talking of getting a good night’s sleep — critical for boosting memory — the key is to let melatonin do its trick. That’s a versatile hormone produced by the brain. It synchronizes the biological clock, regulates sleep and is a powerful antioxidant. Scientists believe it strengthens the immune system and has a strong link to preventing depression, cardiovascular disease, some cancers and sexual dysfunction.      Visit your doctor and dentist.  Just having insurance isn’t enough. Visit the doctor twice a year for check-ups and get any tests appropriate for your age. The same applies to the dentist. When I was in college, I don’t think I visited a dentist once. I returned to my home state of New Jersey several months after graduating to work at my new job, and after receiving insurance, I made my first appointment with a dentist in years. It was a good thing my teeth and gums weren’t in worse shape than they were. Flossing and brushing keeps gums healthy, and healthy gums help increase the chance of maintaining the health of the rest of your body.     Quit smoking (or don’t start).  While everyone seems to have an anecdote to share about a two-pack-a-day smoker who lived beyond 100 years, this isn’t the norm. You can improve your health — and your short-term finances — by quitting smoking. You’ll save money today, you’ll be healthier so that you can continue earning money, and you’ll feel healthier. Quitting may not b an easy feat, but all ex-smokers I know are happy they made the decision.     Manage your stress.  I’ve never been more stressed in my life than I have been as a business owner. I’ve made my way through my life until this point generally avoiding stress, not letting myself get too emotionally involved in my work. It’s different when it’s my own business, and dealing stress has been difficult for me. I use relaxation techniques to help deal with stress, particularly when I know the situations that cause stress can’t be avoided.     Staying healthy can reduce your downtime at work and help you make the most of your income-earning years. Your health might help you extend those years, as well. While I get the impression that the media emphasize health too much, to the point at which unhealthy individuals as marginalized. In order to be healthy, you don’t need to look like an actor or athlete, but paying attention to these few core health principles can be worthwhile for anyone interested in being financially secure. A good attitude towards health and a few healthy habits can increase your human capital.    Photo:  mikebaird     The original version of this article,  Boost Your Human Capital: Stay Healthy , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Today on the  Consumerism Commentary Podcast , Tom Dziubek talks to Ryan Bales, founder and CEO of the personal finance website and software  Budgetable .    Ryan talks about how he founded Budgetable with his brother, how the software works and what he feels are the shortcomings of traditional budgeting methods.     Consumerism Commentary Podcast    Bank Transfer Day: S06E04 / 159   	   		  		   		  		  		  		  		  		   			   			 			  		 		  	      jQuery(document).ready(function($) {  	$('#wp_mep_2').mediaelementplayer({  		m:1  		  		,features: ['playpause','current','progress','duration','volume','tracks','fullscreen']  		,audioWidth:400,audioHeight:  	});  });         Download  –  RSS  –  iTunes      
      I’m an accidental entrepreneur.     I never quite fit in with big hierarchical systems, like public education (as a teacher) and corporations. Getting things done, particularly accomplishing various things the way I wanted to accomplish them, has always been a struggle for me in these structures. I knew from the day I started working at a corporation after leaving a small non-profit arts agency that I would never quite  find my bliss  or even thrive in that type of environment. I remember thinking that my first job, an administrative type of position, didn’t add any value to the world. The position only existed from a pure corporate need, not a societal need. If the corporation weren’t as big as it was, my job function would be unnecessary.    There were other options for me to consider such as owning an independent school of some type or creating an arts foundation, but those goals required two things I did not have at the time: money and experience. So I stuck it out in the corporation for more years than I would have liked, and I put energy into hobbies like writing and blogging.    My hobby became a business over time, and you can see this in its incarnation as  Consumerism Commentary . While all I was doing initially was learning how to become the  chief financial officer of my own life , I became the CEO of a company that was helping me attain that first goal. Being a CEO has been outside of my comfort zone, and I’ve made a number of mistakes over the last few years. The experience has been one of growth for me, and I believe I’ll eventually get the hang of running a business and accepting the fact that I am an entrepreneur.    In the past, the word “entrepreneur” has always been associated with a negative connotation for me. I viewed people who called themselves entrepreneurs as people who knew exactly what to say to manipulate others into relationships. They’re savvy, smooth, and disingenuous; they see all communication and relationship-building with a purpose in mind — building their own business and growing wealth for themselves.    Now that I’ve become what other people often call an entrepreneur, I’m dealing with this cognitive dissonance. What other choice did I have, though, to work for myself? I was out-of-place in formally-structured work environments, particularly where I wasn’t free to take whatever approach to my work I wanted, when I wanted. I may have misjudged entrepreneurship, but I still see this type of posturing in my daily experiences operating Consumerism Commentary.    To add another layer to the idea of entrepreneurship, with the employment market still very much in favor of employers, the trend in financial advisory media towards working for oneself has increased in volume — in both senses, quantity and amplitude. I do agree that by finding a way to work for yourself removes employers from the picture, giving you much more control over your financial destiny. (A portion of that control just moves from an employer to potential clients or customers, however.) A typical advice-based article attempts to convince all corporate drones to leave their unfulfilling job and start their own businesses.     Taken to the extreme, a nation of business owners wouldn’t work. This advice, however, might inspire a small portion of readers to crash through their psychological barriers and find a way to add value directly. Not everyone will be a successful entrepreneur.     I think there are certain personality traits that lend themselves to being a great business owner, first from a Myers-Briggs perspective, where the best business owners likely have a profile of “ENTJ.” (After some quick research, I’m right on the money with this assessment; the ENTJ type is often called  The Executive  type.) For contrast, I am an “INFP.”        Extraversion.  Dealing with business issues is much easier for someone on the Extraversion side of the first dimension. This would be someone who feels energized after dealing with people. I find certain aspects of dealing with people on a business level very draining, though I am comfortable being among large groups of people. I am slightly on the Introversion side of this dimension, but a Myers-Briggs Step II assessment reveals that this is slightly different from my core personality, which would call for a stronger Introversion score.     Judging.  While my personality traits register on the Feeling side of this dimension, a Judging tendency helps people lend themselves towards the same working structures I’ve never been comfortable with. The same trait that encourages the hierarchical approach to business, helpful when working in school systems and large corporations, is also beneficial to running a business. I’ve also been uncomfortable judging the sincerity of people I’ve worked with in the past. Many of my mistakes I alluded to above are related to my impressions of people.     Self-motivation.  Without a boss providing guidance and deadlines, the responsibility for performing rests only with the business owner. I find that motivation is much easier when you own the process. Like students who perform better in college when they pay their own tuition, an entrepreneur’s business is all about that one person. The ability to design a business based around something you’re passionate about or particularly skilled at will infuse motivation into many people who’ve struggled with this in other employment settings.     Forward-looking and big picture.  Anyone who is content with repetitive tasks or would prefer to perform a job by following a step-by-step guide may not be best suited for a life of entrepreneurialism. Running your own business requires looking beyond the next step. It involves always considering the big picture and the ability to define goals. Not everyone is suited for this level of thinking.     Determination.  From the outside, determination can look like stupidity. Being determined in the face of critics, refusing to give up regardless of what someone else might think of your abilities or your business’s potential is essential to becoming successful. Not only that, but considering businesses often fail, being serious about working for yourself requires the ability to brush off the failures and use them as an opportunity to learn about the business and about yourself.        A careless attitude towards money.  Many entrepreneurs have succeeded because they have had the financial means to go after their dreams. If you’re already wealthy, you can stand to take some risks with your business. Someone less established financially would find it much more difficult to justify the risks. For a business like mine, there was not much financial risk at the beginning. I did, however, spend almost all of my waking and some of my sleeping hours to finding a path to success, to the dismay of those who sought to spend more time with me.    The concentration on my own business most likely affected, though probably in a small way, my ability to focus on and care about my day job. I may have missed out on promotions because I wasn’t going beyond my job scope, I was using my own time to build a business. In the end, it was the right decision for me, but it could have easily gone another way. I would have ended up with a continued low salary and no income on the side. From a truly financial perspective, starting a business can be a careless risk. Good entrepreneurs accept this or ignore this, or are just unaware of this.           Obsessive-compulsive.  With the biography of Steven Jobs due out soon, a lot of media attention has surrounded his attitude, particularly his obsessiveness. In the book, Jobs is described as not settling for anything less than perfection all the time, and perfection in his opinion could rarely be defined before him. He would know it when he were to see it.    From a design perspective, this has shown to be immensely perspective. As Malcolm Gladwell  said in his coverage of the biography , “The great accomplishment of Jobs’s life is how effectively he put his idiosyncrasies—his petulance, his narcissism, and his rudeness—in the service of perfection.”           Generalist.  Today’s economy seems to appreciate specialists over generalists, but I see the opposite as being the better approach to a fulfilling life — and generalism is an approach particularly suited for entrepreneurship. Large companies have the need for specialists, people who are very good, excellent, or best in the world at doing one particular thing. This can be a very narrow skill. An entrepreneur who starts a company from the ground up, particularly with limited resources at the beginning, needs to be able to handle many different types of tasks and goals, at the same time, while holding herself to a very high standard.    As the business grows, there can be adjustments. When struggling and to build their business, the founders of Yahoo brought in a CEO from the outside because running the company at a certain level required skills the founders couldn’t quite meet on their own. During the start-up phase, however, the entrepreneurs needed to find a way to tackle all the hard tasks. In this respect, being a jack of all trades, master of none is the best approach for an entrepreneur, provided that this particular jack is a very skilled jack in all trades.          Leaving traditional employment structures behind is not for everyone, and the advice we often see telling everyone to quit their job and start a business can be largely ignored. If you aren’t predisposed towards at least a few of these personality traits, success will be very difficult. If, however, you don’t have these traits in your system, you can train yourself to be comfortable with the actions you would be taking if these traits were embedded in your personality. Acting against your personal profile can be very stressful, though, and might lead to an unsatisfying conclusion.     What do you think about being an entrepreneur? Is it something anybody can do with a little practice or are there certain personality traits necessary for success? Would you consider starting your own business if you felt it was a better path to greater financial well-being over time?     The original version of this article,  The Entrepreneurial Trend: Personality Traits , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Citibank has launched a new version of their Citi Forward Card with a credit card bonus worth mentioning. The new card offers cardholders the opportunity to earn 30,000 bonus ThankYou points, redeemable for $300 in gift cards.  This is a big boost over the typical offer for this card, 10,000 points. Unlike many other bonus credit card offers, this one comes with a disadvantage of delayed gratification; earning the full bonus requires meeting three separate criteria. That doesn’t make the  Citi Forward® Card – $300 in Gift Cards  offer  particularly attractive, but for young professionals with a fresh credit history, it may be the best card available today.       In order to earn the full 30,000 ThankYou point bonus on the  Citi Forward® Card – $300 in Gift Cards  offer, a new cardholder must do the following:       Spend $500 in the first three months of card ownership to receive the first 10,000 ThankYou points.    Spend $1,000 in months four through six of card ownership to receive the second set of 10,000 ThankYou points.    Spend $1,500 in months seven through nine of card ownership to receive the last set of 10,000 ThankYou points.       As you can see the barriers to earning this full bonus aren’t particularly large, but it will take some time before the full 30,000 ThankYou points can be realized. You can meet these criteria while paying your balance in full every month; in fact, this is important to do, because any interest you pay will decrease the value of this offer.    This card also includes a rewards program that offers two ThankYou points for every dollar spent at restaurants and on books, movies and music, and Citi offers One ThankYou point per dollar on all other purchases. There is no limit to the amount of points you can earn every year, and the points never expire. Points are more valuable when converted into gift cards and travel than cash.    The  Citi Forward Card – $300 in Gift Cards  offer has a variable interest rate on purchases and balance transfers of 13.99% to 21.99% depending on credit history. Citi will reduce your APR by 2 percentage points when cardholders make payments on time and spend within their limits. It’s the only card marketed today that offers the perk of a reduced APR. There is no annual fee for using this card.     The $300 gift card bonus is available for a limited time only on select websites like Consumerism Commentary.  Consider applying for the  Citi Forward® Card – $300 in Gift Cards  offer, especially if you’re just getting started in your professional career and don’t have the excellent credit (this card requires a good credit score, but not necessarily excellent) other top-of-the-line credit cards require. If you’re unsure about your credit score, consider visiting  GoFreeCredit.com  to check your credit score with a 7-day free trial.           The original version of this article,  $300 Gift Card Bonus from the Citi Forward Card , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Many Wal-Mart locations around the country now have Money Center departments. These developments create an incredibly convenient way to take your paycheck into the store, have it cashed at the Money Center, and use your cash for your shopping trip. With Wal-Mart’s trend to become a one-stop shop for all household needs, including groceries, each Wal-Mart location is becoming its own small mall — or even village.    The Wal-Mart Money Centers are not full banks. They offer check cashing services, bill payments, outgoing wires, and reloadable debit cards. There are no checking accounts or savings accounts. Wal-Mart abandoned its plans to become a bank, and in doing so, is able to offer certain financial services while not being held to the same regulations as Chase, Bank of America, or your local bank branch. On the spectrum of financial institutions, Wal-Mart Money Centers are closer to establishments like payday loan companies and check cashing storefronts, who charge high fees and cater to lower-income communities and the unbanked population, than the centers are to banks.      Check cashing fee.  The good news is that the fees for cashing your paycheck or government check are generally much lower than the fees at shadier establishments. At the Wal-Mart Money Center, you can cash your check for a 1 percent fee with a maximum fee of $3. Of course, you can cash your checks for free at a bank.      Prepaid debit card fee.  The fee to reload and maintain your  prepaid debit card  is lower than fees for prepaid debit cards elsewhere. Wal-Mart uses GreenDot prepaid debit cards, but at reduced rates of $3 to load and $3 per month to maintain. This is a system designed to charge people with low credit scores or a poor history with banks fees to use their own money. These are fees that middle-income banking customers doesn’t need to pay, particularly now that  big banks have backed away from charging monthly debit card fees .    According to Wal-Mart’s own survey, 60 percent of the customers using the Money Center have bank accounts. These customers are most likely more interested in the convenience, and willing to accept the fees in exchange for getting access to their money at the same location they shop. The remaining 40 percent must be the reason Wal-Mart chose to offer its own check cashing service rather than extending a potentially lucrative contract to a bank that could theoretically operate a branch in every Wal-Mart location.     Are these new services good for the people of Wal-Mart? I’m having trouble finding a significant drawback. I believe it would be better if Wal-Mart were to offer more traditional banking services, but this system is more profitable. The temptation to spend more money when you receive cash from your employer’s paycheck in the store where you’ll be spending money could be an invitation to spend more than necessary, but if you’re spending with cash, at least you’ll be limited to spending only what you have on hand. At the same time, Wal-Mart’s Money Centers offer a better choice than payday loans and check cashing storefronts for lower-income families or the 40 percent of customers who do not have bank accounts, and could possibly help these households transition to a bank in the future.     I do not see Wal-Mart centers as an alternative to banks for most existing banking customers. There is anger towards Wall Street and the banking system, and initiatives like  Bank Transfer Day  encourage people to move away from the big banks towards credit unions and community banks. The Wal-Mart Money Center is not a replacement for a big bank, and moving a family from managing finances through a bank to managing finances on an all-cash basis through an outfit like these could be detrimental to long-term financial stability.    Photo:  aforero     New York Times     The original version of this article,  Wal-Mart Offering Check Cashing Services , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      A new venture capital firm is looking for a few — one hundred in the first five years — entrepreneurs from the recent crop of former students and people their age. Gen Y Capital Partners is looking for investment opportunities — “For Gen Y, by Gen Y” — to help start-up businesses grow.    Any entrepreneur in the appropriate age group should consider this offer. The firm will pay your student loan debt for three years and eliminate your everyday expenses by providing a living space for you on a great university campus like Princeton University. Not having to worry about student loan bills and living expenses allows a young entrepreneur to focus solely on building a business from the ground up without financial distraction.     There has been a trend lately of encouraging the fostering of entrepreneurs from the corporate world. With few job opportunities and an economy where companies are under pressure to produce more with fewer resources, workers are frustrated with corporate life and some leave that world behind in favor of working for themselves. Recent college graduates are faced with a tough job market for someone with little experience and are turning to living at home and trying to determine their next steps. The time couldn’t be better to foster the independent approach that, when successful, can be financially and emotionally rewarding.    The entrepreneurial path isn’t for everyone, and I take issue with articles and gurus that suggest that every individual could solve their financial concerns by becoming making their own passion or interests a full-time job. Being a successful entrepreneur requires personality traits that not everyone is interested in fostering. But for those who are likely to succeed in building their own business and are within the target age group, Gen Y Capital Partners is worth a look.    In order to receive this funding, an entrepreneur and his or her business must meet several qualifications.       A solid management team with business knowledge.    A scalable business model.    Existing paying clients.    A likelihood that potential competitors are limited.    A defined exit strategy.       Gen Y Capital Partners are also offering peer mentoring.  Mentoring is one of the most beneficial methods  of improving your human capital measurement, and can have real results when building a business.     Here is how the application process works, according to Scott Gerber, founder of the Young Entrepreneur Council and Gen Y Capital partner:     When people go to  www.GenYCap.com  and they go to the “Apply” section, they’ll be asked to supply their executive summary, and they’ll also be asked if they want to submit an up to one-minute YouTube video pitch so they can be seen and heard about their business along with some basic information. Starting in 2012, we’ll begin consideration on which businesses we’ll invest in… The average investments will be between $15,000 and $50,000 plus the loan reduction, and in select ventures we’ll invest up to $250,000… Our investment company will take an equity percentage based on the business and the investment that we make.     For a start-up business, $50,000 could be a sizable investment, and the elimination of student loan obligations and living expenses can make that investment go further.     US News & World Report     The original version of this article,  New Capital Fund Pays Entrepreneurs’ Student Loans , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      In a competitive credit card market, issuers compete with each other by increasing their benefits. After the Slate from Chase balance transfer offer became available, Citi responded with a sizable sign-up bonus for its balance transfer credit card. For a limited time only, new cardholders of the  Citi Diamond Preferred Card  will receive a 0% introductory APR on both purchases and balance transfers for 18 months, with a $200 up front statement credit and 3% balance transfer fee.    Cardholders qualify for the $200 statement credit after spending $500 online within the first three months of owning the card, which is not exactly the best situation for someone intending to use this card for the balance transfer offer. The best balance transfer offers are usually only good deals when the card is used solely for paying off the transferred balance, not for new spending. With a 0% introductory APR on purchases for 18 months, however, if new members intend on purchasing holiday gifts online, they could possibly reach the $500 threshold before the year is over. This new debt can be paid off just as easily at 0%.     If you plan to make an event out of Black Friday or Cyber Monday by shopping online, the $200 statement credit could be one of the most beneficial card offers.    Keep in mind that offer like these are not good for anyone who is not in control of their expenses. Good introductory offers can attract spenders to credit cards only to trap them into paying more interest down the road. Only take advantage of these offers if you are disciplined and have an emergency fund to draw from if your financial situation changes.       When you compare the  Citi Diamond Preferred Card  with the  no balance transfer fee Slate from Chase , there are two things to consider.  Any cardholder with a balance of $6,667 or more would save more money by transferring the balance to the Chase card because Citi’s fee at 3% is greater than $200.   Conversely, with the Citi Diamond Preferred, the 0% interest rate lasts a full six months longer, so even if a consumer has to pay a few dollars more to transfer the balance, an additional six months may be worthwhile. It’s a tough call, but this new offer from Citi edges out the Slate from Chase in general, but you have to consider your own specific circumstances.    Once the introductory interest rate expires, the Citi Diamond Preferred Card, which has no annual fee, reverts to the following APR structure:       11.99% to 21.99% variable on purchases and balance transfers depending on quality of credit history    25.24% variable cash advance APR    29.99% variable default rate APR, initiated when a cardholder is consistently delinquent with late payments or over-limit charges       The holidays are a great time to get together with family and friends, but they also bring on the added pressure of buying gifts and spending money on holiday decorations and parties.   Don’t dig a credit card debt hole deeper than you have to. Pay off all your purchases interest-free for 18 months with the  Citi Diamond Preferred Card .    The original version of this article,  Citi Diamond Preferred Card $200 Credit and 18 Month Balance Transfer Offer , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      The best online savings accounts offer high interest rates and great customer service. Savings accounts, particularly so-called “high-yield” savings accounts, are best for money you might need within a year. Any money that you don’t want to subject to the short-term risk and volatility in the stock market should be held safe in a savings account, earning as much interest as possible. Your emergency fund should primarily consist of money held in a high-yield savings account. “High-yield” is unfortunately a bit of a misnomer these days; a decade ago, interest rates were 4% and 5% among select savings accounts and money market accounts. Today, the best rates are all below 2% with most around 1%. This trend will continue until banks need more cash from depositors.     Interest rates.  Interest rates are important because money shouldn’t lose too much purchasing power. In a perfect world, interest rates offered by banks should beat inflation while preserving the balance without risk. Many banks are not now offering a savings option with interest rates high enough to meaningfully beat inflation, so if your savings is at a brick and mortar bank earning below 0.25% APY, choose one of the better options below.     Customer service.  When evaluating customer service, there are two important factors to consider. The best banks offer all account maintenance and transfers through a professional, reliable, and easy-to-navigate website. Secondly, live customer service representatives should be knowledgeable, helpful, and available, although customers should have to deal with a representative infrequently if at all.    Based on my own experiences and reviews from other Consumerism Commentary readers, here are the most-recommended accounts for short-term savings. All of the listed interest rates are current as of November 2011, but they are subject to change by the banks. Although I have nine accounts listed below the table of rates, you don’t need to have accounts with that many different banks. Choose one that fits you the best.    First, here is a list of the latest interest rates. Following this table, I offer a few of my own observations and opinions about savings accounts from nine popular online banks.        <!--  function getQueryStringVariable(variable) {  var query = window.location.search.substring(1);  var vars = query.split('&');  for (var i=0;i<vars.length;i++) {  var pair = vars[i].split('=');  if (pair[0] == variable) {  return pair[1];}}}  // -->  <!--  var ni_ad_client = "326267";  var ni_rp = getQueryStringVariable('type');  var ni_amt = getQueryStringVariable('amount');  var ni_rpt = getQueryStringVariable('term');  var                    ni_amt = '19999',                      ni_rp = '7',                      ni_rpt = '15';  // -->      
      Carl Richards is one of today’s best writers focusing on personal finance. Originally keeping a great blog at  behaviorgap.com , The Behavior Gap has moved to the New York Times, and early next year, Carl will release his first book. Look for   The Behavior Gap: Simple Ways to Stop Doing Dumb Things with Money   on January 3, 2012.     Carl’s articles on Behavior Gap and now his New York Times column tend to focus on the psychological aspects of money and are usually centered around cocktail-napkin sketches like the example below illustrating how as investors we expect trends to continue into the future.         Carl Richards is also a financial planner, and in a recent New York Times feature, he uses an example from his own life to explain how people continue to behave irrationally about money even when they know better. It’s a good indication of why a healthy approach to your finances requires much more than knowing, “spend less than you earn.” We’d like to think that building wealth is as simple as that, but if that were true, anyone who could do simple arithmetic would be financially secure over time.    While close friends and family were likely aware of Carl’s housing situation a few years ago, he’s just now sharing his experiences with the public. How could a smart financial planner lose his house in Las Vegas? How could someone strangers rely on for financial advice find himself underwater on his mortgages? It’s not such a stretch when you understand human behavior.        We feel comfortable in crowds.  When everyone else in our closest circle is behaving a certain way, we feel safe if we are taking the same approach and making the same decisions.     We expect trends to continue (see the sketch above) even though reality often differs.  In Carl’s case, he expected — and everyone around him expected — real estate prices to continue climbing.     We trust the professionals.  Carl qualified for a mortgage at more than 100 percent of his house’s purchase price, according to his mortgage broker. He wanted to believe the salesperson, despite knowing his fee was based on the loan value. Even against his better judgment, he over-borrowed.       Carl’s story also illustrates how easy it is to falsely judge someone’s financial choices from the outside. Now with clients in dire financial situations, as a financial planner Carl is less likely to judge their choices to spend money. Their continued vacations despite the lack of money in the bank could be what is saving their family — or their lives.    You can get caught up in the excitement when everyone around you seems to be making choices which look crazy on paper but seem to be resulting in short-term success. Carl’s example is the real estate frenzy in Las Vegas in 2003:     It felt a little crazy to be shopping for houses that cost half a million dollars, but my income was growing rapidly. Everywhere I looked, people were being rewarded for buying as much house as they could possibly afford, and then some. There was this excitement in the air, almost like static. I started to think that if I didn’t buy a house right then, I would never be able to afford one… We’d go to open houses for $400,000 homes and see lines of couples in their late 20s — younger than we were — waiting to get inside.     He refinanced his mortgage, choosing a low payment option that added to his loan balance each month rather than subtracted. Then the real estate market crashed in Las Vegas, and he became underwater on his mortgage. He could continue to pay but owing more on the mortgage than the house was worth, keeping the house was hurting his finances. Carl wrestled with what he perceived to be a moral obligation to continue paying his mortgage and the moral obligation to take care of his family.     After discussing the issue with other, Carl decided that what he had was not a moral obligation with the bank but a contractual obligation, and he should look at the mortgage as a business arrangement. Any business would reevaluate their financial situation, and if it was a better decision to stop paying the mortgage in order to qualify for a short sale, despite the credit score hit, that’s what he should do.     While this was the logical, mathematical choice, it only became a possibility when Carl felt better about breaking his mortgage agreement.  Human behavior plays a larger role than mathematics, even in this case.  Again, from the article:     The process of making financial decisions is about more than building a spreadsheet to calculate the answer, because life rarely fits cleanly into a spreadsheet. Our decisions often appear irrational until we understand the whole story.      Would you walk away from your house and your mortgage  if you owed more than the house was worth, your loan balance was increasing each month, and you’d be better off financially if you just stopped? I’ve discussed this at Consumerism Commentary in the past, and the results, based on participation from readers, was mixed. Some would, some would not.     New York Times ,  Behavior Gap     The original version of this article,  The Financial Planner Who Lost His House , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       Focusing solely on your net worth is an approach too narrow if you want to become financially independent over time. To increase your chances of being secure, think about your  personal human capital , a set of skills and experiences that will improve your finances in the future.     Establish yourself as an authority in your field and create a public image for yourself. When done well, this will help ensure that you and your skills will always be in demand as long as your field is relevant.  With technology, establishing yourself is easier today than it has ever been. The internet allows people with similar interests to connect easier, establishing communities and subcommunities offering enough room for many experts and leaders.    It starts with a blog. If you develop or write for a popular blog in your field, you could spread your authority far beyond your circle of colleagues. Blogging can open even greater opportunities to enhance your renown, including writing published books, appearing on television, and being cited as an expert when news organizations seek sources. The best news is that it’s incredibly easy to start a blog. Like a college degree is, for the most part, an entry point for a good career, a blog is the entry point for establishing yourself as a sought-after expert in your field.    Before you start a blog           If you’re anxious to get started, there’s nothing wrong with starting a blog right away, particularly if your motivation comes in spurts. Not long after you begin, and before your blog can help you reach a level of authority, you’ll most likely need to think about these questions. Take some time and get it right from the start by planning your blog.           What is your blog’s mission?  The mission of Consumerism Commentary is “to develop financially literate, capable, and successful human beings by sharing educational, entertaining, and engaging writing.” Today, that mission guides almost everything I do related to this website. Consumerism Commentary has been around for eight and a half years, but I only created this mission recently. I formed the website for different reasons, but if I had focused on this mission from the beginning, the website may be more popular today.    As the context of this article is increasing your human capital, your blog will also have a “secret mission:” to establish you as an expert in your field.           What is your voice?  The growth of a blog and its owner’s reputation within a broad community is related to the content on the website. If you’re focusing on writing articles, read often, write often, and learn how to infuse your personality into your published thoughts. Even if you’re already an established expert in your field, your skills may not immediately translate to engaging prose, so practice writing for the public.    If you plan to focus your website on video, again, practice being coherent and engaging in front of the camera. Find the approach you want to take with your voice, mannerisms, and attitude. You might change your approach later when you have a chance to test what works best in front of the audience, but the more you can prepare even by testing among your friends the better you’ll be able to quickly establish yourself once you start releasing your thoughts on the public.        What can visitors expect?  Do you want to produce content on a daily basis? Do you feel you’d be better served by less frequent but more in-depth articles? Much of your decision might come after practice. Only then might you be able to determine what works best for you. At the outset, choose an approach and stick with it, only to provide some consistency.     What is your blog’s name?  Sometimes this step comes first — a name inspires how you approach your blog. Your blog’s name is your identity, and the choice might be affected by your ultimate plans for the website. If your goal truly is to establish yourself as an expert, tie the blog’s name to your real name. If, on the other hand, you’re interested in building your blog as a “business” and selling it some day, tying your identity to your blog can limit your options. There are many approaches, but to increase your human capital, keep branding simple and make your real name prominent — the opposite of my initial approach to Consumerism Commentary.     Do you have a hook?  Again from a marketing and branding perspective, you may want to consider a concept to identify with.  Erica  was a web developer who started her own web hosting company, sold her business for $1.1 million, and is now a successful web-based entrepreneur, thanks in part to how she markets herself. She focuses on the business-selling aspect of her experience. This is the hook that draws people in, turning visitors to readers and readers to fans (not without a healthy dose of critics, as well). The hook works. What’s yours?       How to start a blog    At the risk of sounding like an ad, I suggest visiting  WordPress.com  and starting a blog; it will take less than five minutes. There are other services out there, but WordPress is very popular and easy to learn. You will have an option to add extras to your blog, such as your own domain name. You may be reluctant to pay for some of the extra features like a domain name at first, but the fee is small and the benefit to your perceived expertise is worthwhile.     That mostly takes care of the technical aspect of getting started. Once you’ve established your framework, you can get started preparing your website for the initial launch. In a perfect world, you’d probably like to have these tasks completed before releasing your blog to the public and letting the world know about it. If you are anxious to get your name out there, you might not feel like waiting. My suggestion is to get your website to a point where it has engaging and deep content before you launch, because this will show even your first visitor that you are serious about what you are doing.       Begin writing or posting regularly on your website, building an archive of content. Have enough to keep a visitor engaged. Consider having enough to keep someone engaged for an hour, reading, watching videos, or otherwise consuming your product, before promoting your new blog.    Select and customize a pleasing and navigable design. WordPress offers many options for your website’s design and layout, and with a little practice, you should determine how you can customize both.    Determine how to categorize your content and build out these sections of your site. Typical layout calls for a small number of high-level sections listed near the top of your website. You should also have an area of your website dedicated to your personal information. Include who you are, why you’re an expert, and a method of contacting you. Be sure to include any relevant information that could enhance your reputation.       Once your blog is established, you need to let people know of its existence. Find similar websites, participate in discussions, join communities, and determine how to use social media like Facebook and Twitter effectively. Use press release services like  PRWeb  to your advantage when there’s an opportunity to do so legitimately.     Move beyond your own blog    Publishing your thoughts to increase your human capital isn’t limited to blogs. A blog will help you promote your other writing and open doors for you, however. With an archive of great content, you will be able to point to your history of excellent writing when looking to advance your reputation beyond the confines of your own website.       Offer to write articles for other respected bloggers within your community.    Seek opportunities to contribute to major publications like newspapers or industry journals.    Take a specific idea and publish your own book or e-book.    Approach publishers with a concept for a book, pointing to your history — and importantly, the community of fans you’ve built — as a rationalization for a book deal.    If you prefer developing video content over writing, look for opportunities to be on television, and perhaps, produce your own show.       The goal is to boost your human capital through establishing an expert identity for yourself. If you’re well-respected online and are able to establish yourself beyond others in your field, potential employers and clients will seek you out. You will have more opportunities to grow your wealth and use that wealth to achieve the  real goals  you have for your life.    There is much more that could be said about developing a blog to promote yourself as an expert. Each aspect of creating a successful online identity, including creating content, mastering the most effective layout, and marketing yourself, has generated enough interest among the public to warrant blogs and books devoted to these topics. This overview doesn’t even touch on directly  generating  revenue from your blog , but that is a separate goal from what is discussed here, establishing yourself as an expert. Focus on creating something that establishes you before worrying about income. The expense is minimal except for your time.     If you’re concerned about return on investment, keep in mind the goal is to increase your human capital, the benefit of which only reveals itself over a long period of time.    Keep in mind that  the bar has been raised.  It is easy to start a blog, so it takes much more than just starting and producing consistent content to establish yourself as an expert through your blog.  Hold yourself to the highest standards and settle for nothing but the best you can do.     The original version of this article,  Boost Your Human Capital: Publish Your Thoughts , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      The wealth gap is growing, and if the Occupy Wall Street and its satellite protests are any indication, those not within the top one percent of income earners are not happy with their circumstances or the policies that help foster the wealth of those at the top. It’s been called class warfare, but there are other dimensions to the wealth gap than the spectrum that includes poor, working middle class, upper middle class, and wealthy.    The gap in wealth between young and old Americans is growing. Today, the Pew Research Center released new data showing the widening divide between Americans 35 years old or younger and Americans 65 and older. In 1984, the median net worth for the younger group was $11,521 (adjusted for inflation). The same year, the median net worth for the older group was $120,457. Net worth includes the value of all one’s assets, including a house, minus the value of all one’s liabilities, including student loan debt, credit card debt, and mortgages.     The passing of twenty-five years makes a difference. Today’s median net worth — actually not today’s number, but 2009′s number — for Americans 35 years old or younger is $3,662. That’s a 68% decline! Today’s youth is significantly less wealthy than the youth of the previous generation. In 2009, the older group’s median net worth was $170,494, a 42% increase.      This is a comparison between age groups, which I would expect to be fairly similar to each other and similar to the past in terms of socioeconomic distribution. They would have to be, or the data would need to be standardized, for the numbers to have merit. There are great reasons to be happy about the increase of wealth in one group, but there is also a wide variety of reasons why young people (and I am one — I’ll remain 35 for just a few more months, if all goes well).       Unemployment within the young age group is high, while older workers are opting to stay in their jobs longer. In fact, recent graduates facing unemployment  may never reach their income potential . This problem isn’t just going to go away when the job market improves.    Some call today’s young adults (or old adolescents) the  Boomerang Generation . After college, they move back to their parents’ house while looking for a job. They delay marriage and purchasing a house, both activities that are correlated with increased wealth. Yesterday’s recent graduates had jobs and houses, both of which contributed to gains over the past 25 years, particularly if the house was purchased in advance of the real estate bubble.     Student loan debt  is a much more significant part of a young person’s life today than it was in 1984. College costs have far outpaced inflation, and lenders have always been keen to extend the availability of higher education to more students (otherwise known as borrowers and customers).    A college education is increasingly seen as the gateway to a good career in any field. It’s difficult to compete in an information-based economy (opposed to a manufacturing-based economy) without a bachelor’s degree. A  high school diploma is no longer enough  for participation, particularly when companies can afford to be selective in hiring.        If you’re in the younger group, the question should always be what you can do to reverse this trend. While there can be some results by supporting public policies that don’t include bail-outs for the rich (socialization of losses) while cutting back resources for those with the least opportunity (privatizing the gains), it’s important to put yourself in the best position possible so that you don’t need to rely on public policy in your favor.    Assume you’re a major league baseball player. (That will easily put you in a position where your wealth is quite healthy, but that’s besides the point at the moment. Just go with the unexpected metaphor for a second.) You have three balls and two strikes, there are two outs, you’re down by one run, the bases are loaded, and it’s the bottom of the ninth inning. You hit your next pitch to the shortstop. He mishandles the ball but gets it over to first base. It’s a close play, a tie, but the umpire calls you out. Your manager rushes the field from the dugout to argue, but it’s no use. You head back to the showers momentarily defeated.     It’s easy to blame the umpire for getting the call wrong on such an important play. It’s your job to perform well enough that there’s never any question about whether you’re safe or out. The “system” that requires an umpire to make a snap judgment call on a close play is the same “system” that makes it difficult for people to succeed financially. By  taking control of your finances , you make the “system” — the job market, the economy, politician’s policies, to name a few societal aspects that aren’t easily controlled by one person — less relevant to your long-term success.    Photo:  Jinx!     Pew Research Center     The original version of this article,  Wealth Gap: Young Vs. Old , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Bank of America has given into the pressure of losing more than just a few unprofitable customers,  canceling its planned $5 monthly debit card fee.  The damage, not just to Bank of America but to retail banking overall, has already been done. The Credit Union National Association has counted, state by state, a total of 650,000 new customers since September 29, the day Bank of America  announced its plan to begin this fee in 2012 .     While other banks had tested the debit card fee waters before Bank of America, this bank, the largest in the United States, was at the tipping point of an anti-Wall Street campaign. Reaction was vast, with thousands of dissatisfied customers — some with Bank of America, some with other mainstream banks — rallying around the creation of  Bank Transfer Day , on the calendar for this past Saturday.      Listen to the Consumerism Commentary Podcast interview with Kristen Christian, the founder of Bank Transfer Day.      This was good news for credit unions. Not including any new customers since last Wednesday, credit union membership increased at a record pace in the short time period of just over one month. With the 650,000 new customers, credit unions experienced an influx of $4.5 billion. The survey data come from a wide sample of 5,000 credit unions, 80 percent of which have seen a membership increase during this period. If Bank Transfer Day has been successful, the numbers should be even more impressive when NCUA includes the rest of the week’s figures.    I did not yet move my accounts from my primary brick-and-mortar bank, Wells Fargo. I did, however, research credit unions for myself and discovered one that is somewhat convenient. It isn’t nearly as convenient as the Wells Fargo branch down the street, the TD Bank branch in the other direction, or the Chase Bank within a short walking distance. With most of my banking online, a need for a convenient branch is less of an issue.     Did you move your money to a credit union in the last month? What was your experience?     The original version of this article,  Credit Unions Successfully Woo 650,000 New Customers , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      While I’ve already offered my suggestions for  this year’s best holiday toys , not everyone on your Christmas or gift-giving list is a child. You may have a special adult someone on your list who would appreciate something more useful. Although it’s early in the holiday shopping season, at least for me, some of the best deals are already starting to materialize, well before Black Friday.    If you’re looking for a great Christmas gift for one of your favorite people, consider one of these Christmas gift ideas under $100. Of course, these apply as well to Hanukkah or any other gift-giving activities you might partake in before the end of the year.    Have any good suggestions? Please leave them in the comments and I’ll add the ones I like to my list.    Gift ideas under $100: Around the house     1. Dremel Multi-Max Oscillating Tool Kit  (Home Depot, $99.00). “The Dremel Multi-Max 2.3 Amp MM20 Oscillating Tool Kit incorporates a powerful, efficient motor that provides cool, smooth operation under load. This versatile tool features a compact design that makes it easy to handle in tight spaces..” For anyone who likes or wants to do work around the house.     2. Black & Decker B&D Convection Toaster Oven  (Sears, $95.63). This convection toaster oven also comes with a rotisserie capability. I need to replace my toaster oven, and this is a capable option.     3. Task Force 204-Piece Standard/Metric Mechanics Tool Set with Case  (Lowe’s, $89.98). With 204 pieces, this tool set is complete for any would-be handyman or handywoman, yet it is still portable.     4. Pure Beech Jersey Knit Sheet Set, 100% Modal  (Bed, Bath and Beyond, $29.00 – $79.00). “The softness of these extremely soft and light silk-like sheets is reminiscent of your favorite T-shirt, offering incomparable comfort.” I’ve been a fan of jersey cotton sheets for several years. I find jersey cotton to be much more comfortable than sateen or other bed sheets.     5. Framed art  ( Amazon, up to $99.99 ). Adding art to the walls adds color and excitement to any room in the house. If you don’t know an artist willing to create work for you, shop for framed art.     6. Merkur Shaving Gift Set  ( Amazon, $106.50 ). “The set includes a chrome stand that holds a Merkur Classic Safety Razor and a fabulous badger Shaving Brush with a Chrome Handle. Also included in the set is an elegant Chrome Bowl that holds a Colonel Conk Shaving Soap.” Since April, I’ve been  shaving the old-fashioned way , with a badger-hair brush, shaving soap, and a safety razor. My face has never felt healthier and I get a smooth shave. Add some inexpensive Feather blades and have smooth skin all day.     7. Helen Of Troy Hotspa Professional Ultimate Foot Bath  ( Amazon, $95.93 ). “Ozone (active oxygen) helps to control, reduce and eliminate bacteria Motorized Pedicenter rotates with the press of a foot.” These devices are quite relaxing, whether you’ve been on your feet all day teaching, hiking, or giving presentations to the board of directors.     8. Sterling Silver 1/8 Carat t.w. Diamond Heart Bracelet  (Kay, $99.99). “Heart-shaped sterling silver links accented with round diamonds create playful style in this bracelet for her. One-eighth carat total diamond weight. 7″ in length. With lobster clasp.” For any women who like jewelery.    Gift ideas under $100: Electronics     9. Sony BDP-S380 Blu-ray Disc Player  ( Amazon, $98.00 ). “Enjoy Blu-ray Disc movies in brilliant high-definition resolution or upscale the quality of your DVDs to near HD. Instantly stream a wide variety of movies, TV shows, live sports, videos, and music from Netflix, YouTube, Pandora, Hulu Plus and many more.” If you have a high-definition television, you must adopt Blu-Ray and replace your DVD player. There is simple no comparison between (even up-converted) standard definition and high bit-rate Blu-Ray video and audio.     10. Sony Cyber-Shot DSC-W530 14.1 MP Digital Still Camera  ( Amazon, $99.99 ). “Shoot more life with the Sony DSC-W530.  Capture landscapes with one touch using Sweep Panorama, get that perfect portrait with Smile Shutter, snap wider scenes with the 26mm wide angle lens, get high quality photos with 14.1 megapixels, and automatically get clear shots with SteadyShot image stabilization and iAuto; all in a sleek little design.” This camera features a Carl Zeiss lens, offering a great quality picture sure to beat the camera built into your phone.     11. Roku 2  (Roku, $59.99 to $99.99). “With Roku, get instant access to tons of entertainment — with more choices added all the time.” This device allows you to watch any media content on your (most likely high-definition) television, accessing the internet wirelessly from anywhere in your house. It seamlessly links to your Netflix and Hulu content as well as many other services.     12. Garmin nüvi 1300 4.3-Inch Widescreen Portable GPS Navigator  ( Amazon, $98.94 ). “The thin nüvi 1300 has a widescreen display, yet it’s slim and light enough to take along on all your travels. This affordable GPS comes with regional mapping, announces streets by name, offers pedestrian navigation options and calculates a more fuel-efficient route with ecoRoute.” I’m looking for a new GPS navigator for my car, as I’ve been using my phone since my last device was stolen.     13. Kindle Touch Wi-Fi, 6″ E Ink Display  ( Amazon, $99.00 ). I have been using my iPad for reading books purchased via Kindle, but if you have no need for an iPad and just want the ability to access your library from anywhere, choose the Kindle. Now members of Amazon Prime can read books without paying for each.     14. Coby DVD938 5.1-Channel DVD Home Theater System  ( Amazon, $90.01 ). “Dynamic sound meets sleek design in Coby’s DVD938 home theater system, which includes a progressive scan DVD player plus a 5.1-channel home theater speaker system (subwoofer and five satellite speakers).” This is a bargain if you don’t need HDMI and you’re looking for compatibility with USB players, SD cards, or karaoke.    Gift ideas under $100: Fun stuff     15. Tauntaun Sleeping Bag  (ThinkGeek, $99.99). “In the sub-zero wasteland of the planet Hoth, only the strong survive… and of course those lucky Jedi protected by the thick skin of a Tauntaun.” Any Star Wars fan, adult or child, would appreciate the comfort of avoiding the cold by sleeping inside a tauntaun. ThinkGeek offers lots of gifts for science fiction and fantasy geeks and tech nerds.     16. Bicycle Premium Mega Masters Poker Chip Set  ( Amazon, $99.95 ). “The Bicycle Mega Masters Poker Set is a premium poker set for the poker enthusiast. It includes a handmade, high-lacquered wooden case with 500 11.5-gram Bicycle clay filled poker chips in a four-color assortment of red, blue, black, and green… [and] two decks of Premium Bicycle brand playing cards.” Invite your friends over and lose more money to them than the cost of buying this set.     17. Halex Premium Vivace 113mm Bocce Set  (BocceBallSets.com, $94.98). With this set, you can entertain your friends with both backyard games: bocce and croquet. Best to buy these sets during the off-season for the best prices. This set normally costs $140.     18. Bob Ross Deluxe Oil Painting Set In Wood Box  ( Amazon, $85.00 ). “Bob Ross Art Sets enable the beginner artist to create a beautiful oil painting through Bob’s easy and informative instruction methods and top-quality materials. This Deluxe Art Set contains everything needed to get started in the Bob Ross ‘Wet on Wet’ technique.” Thankfully, this set comes with an instructional DVD. You recipient will be on his or her way to creating masterpieces.    Gift ideas under $100: Financial stuff    This is a personal finance blog, after all.     19. $100 Treasury Bond  (TreasuryDirect, $100). TreasuryDirect offers gift functionality, so as long as you have an account and have the Social Security Number of your recipient, you can give the gift of a savings bond, a low risk investment that will earn interest over time.     20. Stock  (ShareBuilder, $100). If you would like to give someone a financial gift, particularly a young individual who has an interest in the stock market but is a beginner, consider a ShareBuilder gift card to get them started. This is a good time to introduce young investors to the concept of transaction fees, as well.     21. 2011 United States Mint Silver Proof Set  (United States Mint, $67.95). “The 2010 United States Mint Silver Proof Set contains all 14 circulating coins in stunning proof condition displayed in three protective lenses, each bearing the S mint mark of the United States Mint at San Francisco.” Great for collectors or non-collectors, and it can inspire and create young numismatists.     22. Kids’ Savings Account  ( ING Direct, $25 and up ).  Opening a new ING Direct Kids Savings Account  is a great way to teach a child or teenager good saving habits and concepts like compound interest.    Here are some more ideas:        Gifts That Avoid Both Extra Stuff and Cliches      12 Last-Minute Gift Ideas      Christmas Gifts That Make a Difference      25 Christmas Gift Ideas Under $10      25 Christmas Gift Ideas Under $25      25 Christmas Gift Ideas Under $50      Christmas Gift Ideas for Military Members        The original version of this article,  20+ Christmas Gift Ideas Under $100 , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Today on the  Consumerism Commentary Podcast , Bryan talks to Chris Camillo, author of   Laughing at Wall Street: How I Beat the Pros at Investing (by Reading Tabloids, Shopping at the Mall, and Connecting on Facebook) and How You Can, Too .     Chris advises avoiding standard Wall Street advice and focusing on social networks, personal shopping research and pop culture for discovering investment ideas.     Consumerism Commentary Podcast    Bank Transfer Day: S06E03 / 158   	   		  		   		  		  		  		  		  		   			   			 			  		 		  	      jQuery(document).ready(function($) {  	$('#wp_mep_3').mediaelementplayer({  		m:1  		  		,features: ['playpause','current','progress','duration','volume','tracks','fullscreen']  		,audioWidth:400,audioHeight:  	});  });         Download  –  RSS  –  iTunes      
      Reports are coming in with many HSBC customers around the world experiencing declined card transactions, no website access, and no phone system. HSBC’s network in the UK is apparently unavailable at the moment, and other areas may be affected throughout the world. HSBC is the largest bank in the United Kingdom, and all HSBC card transactions are being declined. ATMs are inoperative. The institution’s online banking system is unresponsive. I had no problem accessing the HSBC Advance website in the United States, but I’m no longer a customer so I have no account to view.    The news is getting out through  Twitter . Here are some recent comments:       “As an #hsbc customer, I’m glad I got my money out yesterday. Check out the hashtag for tales of woe. A new kind of bank crash. Ouch.”    “Their Secure Key was not enough – HSBC have obviously decided to move online banking to ultra-secure mode. #hsbc #fail”    “The end of Capitalism has begun, HSBC network down! Get into your bunkers people, this is not a drill! #Bankpocalypse”    “HSBC, I think you should know; you made me look a right fool in that Café when my card was declined.”       According to the BBC, the bank is aware of the issues and is investigating the problem. Are you affected by the HSBC networking downtime?     Update:  The problem affecting HSBC’s systems, including ATMs, transactions, and phone access, has been resolved. “We are very sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused our customers, and will ensure that no customers are impacted financially. We have now cleared and processed all payments.”    The original version of this article,  HSBC Banking Network Down , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      There have been times in my life, while working for other people or companies, that I’ve thought to myself,  I should have more job responsibility than this,  or,  I should be getting paid more than I am.  A disagreement with the boss over my skills, potential, and value to the organization created tension. For some people, this tension could be demotivating.     Dissatisfaction with career progress is often not something that could be blamed on the company on the boss. Sometimes it’s due to a bad fit between people, but more likely, employees can look at themselves to find the barrier to success in a career. Here are a few possibilities.      1. You haven’t defined what you really want.  The first step to getting what you want out of a career is having a clear goal with a series of steps that will get you there. Knowing where you’d like to be in your career helps you carry a sense of purpose in your job. If career advancement isn’t important to you and you haven’t found a need to define any goals, chances are your boss will keep you right where you are. If you have a goal in mind and are willing to put in the effort to show why you can accept more responsibilities, you have a better chance of moving ahead.     2. You haven’t discussed your career with your boss.  While the best organizations are partners with employees in the career-building process, the initiative must come from the employees. After you have clear career goals and a personal job-related mission, you must share that with the people in your organization who can help make that happen. I’ve been too quiet about my desires in the past, and it has hurt me. After the fact, I’ve had bosses tell me that they didn’t know I wanted more responsibility. You may think you are showing the organization what you want through your actions, but in most cases, career desires need to be discussed explicitly.     3. You aren’t passionate about your work.  Not everyone is lucky enough to be able to  follow passions . The missions that people are more likely to be passionate about are in fields in which is may be difficult to make a living. If your passion is fine art and the only job you can see yourself doing is a painting artistic landscapes, the competition to become one of the few painters who can earn a solid living on their art is tough. If your passion is in a field that pays well, like engineering, you have a better shot. Most people settle, and particularly in job markets that favor employers, people often take the jobs they can get and don’t factor passion into the equation.     When you’re not passionate about your work, it’s more difficult to summon up the intrinsic motivation that’s required to not only do what’s asked of you, but to go beyond the call of duty and excel, impressing the decision-makers in your organization. Find something about your job to be passionate about, even if it’s not the job itself.     4. You haven’t clarified why you deserve more.  Few people enjoy talking about themselves, particularly if it could be seen as bragging. Unfortunately, managers are busy and often don’t see everything you do. This information should come out in annual performance reviews if your organization participates in this ritual, but these reviews tend to be formalities after management has already decided whether you receive a promotion or a raise. Set up time to review your progress with your boss on a much more frequent basis. Even if discussed informally, let her know that you’re succeeding in ways that may not be immediately visible to a busy manager who focuses on many different people every day.    You may also need to make the connection for your manager. Explain not only what you’ve done but the effect these activities had or will have on the organization.     5. You’re not talking to the right decision-maker.  You may have had all the right discussions with the wrong individual. At one company, I knew my direct supervisor had a good idea of where I wanted to be, but she wasn’t the person who could help move my career in the right direction. While she always claimed to be working on my behalf, for my to see career success, I needed to have more open communication with her supervisors — not her direct supervisor, but her boss’s boss, two layers in a corporate hierarchy up. When you need to jump ranks in order to move your career forward, it can tend to be intimidating. You don’t deal with your boss’s boss’s boss on a regular basis, but she might be the one who needs to know what your goals and desires are. She needs to know how you’ve succeeded, and she needs to she your passion.     Relying on long communication chain may be respectful of rank, but in the end, it’s not going to get you anywhere.    There might be other reasons you’re unhappy with your career progress. Perhaps the company just isn’t a good match for you. Perhaps your management plays favorites. Perhaps you’d succeed further working for yourself. Perhaps your management isn’t lying when they say the company has no money. Rather than focus on these external factors, look within. If you believe the career path you’re on is the right path for you and you’re undervalued, you can change your approach to increase your chances of being noticed positively.    Photo:  plastAnka     The original version of this article,  5 Reasons You’re Unhappy With Your Career Progress , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      The Discover More Card has been around for quite some time, and over the last few years Discover has launched different versions of the card to attract as many consumers as possible.  Earlier this year, Discover was the first issuer in years to launch a no balance transfer fee credit card, realizing that no other issuer was willing to put an offer like this forward. Today, Discover has continued their recent run of aggressive promotions by offering a $150 cash bonus to all new Discover More Card members.    The $150 cash bonus that all new  Discover® More® Card  holders can receive comes after spending $1,000 during the first 90 days of card ownership.  The cash bonus will be added immediately to the statement after the 90 day period has expired.  As an added perk, this version of the Discover More Card is offering 2% cash back on all Amazon.com purchases during the first billing period (first 30 days of card ownership), but only up to $250 spent.  After that, Discover reduces the Amazon.com cash back bonus to 1%. (That’s a total of $5 cash back under the 2% tier, but unlimited cash back under the 1% tier.)       Year in and year out, consumers consider the Discover More Card to be among the top three cash back credit cards.  The rewards program offers 0.25% cash back on the first $3,000 spent annually, then 1% on all purchases thereafter.  Discover also offers 5% cash back on select purchases every month. Here is the full 2011 calendar including the categories of spending that earn the 5% cash back.       January through March: travel and restaurants    April through June: home and fashion    June: groceries and drug stores    July through September: gas, hotels, movies and theme parks     October through December: restaurants and fashion        Unfortunately, the  Discover® More® Card  comes with a significant setback related to the 5% categories. The cash back you can earn at this bonus rate is subject to a limit.  The maximum amount of cash back that cardholders can earn in any period at the 5% level is $15.   Once a consumer has reached this amount, he’ll receive 1% cash back on all future purchases with no limits.     The cash back never expires and is automatically credited on each statement.  When shopping online through the Discover Mall, customers can earn an additional 5% to 20% cash back on their spending.    The Discover More Card comes with a 0% introductory APR on both purchases and balance transfers for six month. After the introductory rate expires, the variable APR is 11.99% to 20.99% depending on credit history.  The balance transfer fee is 3% if the balance is transferred by February 10, 2012 or 5% anytime after that date. There is no annual fee for this card.    With the holiday season quickly approaching, having a cash back credit card is a great asset to help save money on gifts, travel or any other expenses.  The Discover More Card’s $150 cash back bonus is a decent offer, but it will be available for a limited time. To apply or learn more about this card, visit the  Discover® More® Card  secure application.           The original version of this article,  Discover More Card $150 Limited Time Cash Back Bonus , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      In the midst of the economic recession a few years ago, layaway programs made a big comeback. Previously a great method for buying items that may have been on the expensive side in eras when credit was not available to many consumers, the same economic conditions returned when credit card offers became scarce recently. Layaway programs are popular around the holidays, because consumers who plan in advance can reserve popular gifts (like the  year’s hottest toys ) while saving for the complete purchase, regardless of whether a  credit card  is available.    Taking Walmart’s layaway program as an example, we can draw a comparison between shopping with a layaway program, using a credit card, and paying with cash. Assume you use Walmart’s full layaway period, October 17 through December 16, you make payments for two months before receiving your item, and you pay a $5 up-front fee for the privilege. Assume also you are buying items that cost $250 in total. The $5 fee over two months equates roughly to a 12% annual percentage rate. That’s not that much different from credit card rates, possibly a little lower than average.    With a credit card, however, you can take the purchased item home immediately. With layaway, the store holds the product for you until you’ve completed your payments. If you decide later on not to finish purchasing an item on layaway, you’ll need to pay another fee in order to get your initial deposit of 10% of the item price and any subsequent payments back.    Without a layaway program or a credit card, you would need to save on your own before having enough cash to buy your items. If it takes two months to save up, you would receive the item at the same time you would have if you had taken advantage of layaway, but without the item reserved for you, it might be sold out by the time you can afford to buy it. That’s reason enough to avoid some of the most popular holiday gifts. The best option is to save for your holiday spending — or spending for any large item for which a layaway program would be beneficial — well enough in advance of needing to complete the purchase.    There are several benefits of taking advantage of a layaway program for holiday shopping.       Reserve your item in advance, ensuring the popular item will be available later.    Avoid traditional banks and credit cards, and likely pay smaller fees.    Keep your savings in your bank account.       Layaway programs provide an alternative to saving in advance, with a fee to pay for the privilege. In some cases, it can be a better deal than paying with a credit card, though consumers making credit card payments have the advantage of taking the purchased item home immediately.     Besides these benefits, there are potential drawbacks and dangers. One important drawback of layaway programs is that you lock in the price when you place your downpayment. If the store offers a sale later on, you won’t be able to take advantage of the lower price without cancelling your layaway and incurring fees to do so. If the item you wish to buy is offered at a deep discount, you may be willing to incur the cancellation fee, but otherwise the result is paying more to take home an item than shoppers who bought the item that day without the help of layaway.    Be aware of your store’s policies. While the cancellation of a layaway program usually won’t prevent a full refund (minus fees), some stores take a stronger stance and offer no refunds.    There is a lot of pressure to buy gifts during the holiday season in an effort not to disappoint loved ones. It’s much easier to manage expectations — or it can be, if a family has a philosophy of managing expectations already — than to jump through financial hoops to buy the latest and greatest trendy gifts.      Have you taken advantage of a layaway program?     The original version of this article,  Layaway Programs: How to Buy What You Can’t Afford (Yet) , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       This is a guest article by Emily Guy Birken, author of  The SAHMambulust . In this article, she offers suggestions for cutting the costs associated with car ownership.     Owning a car is an expensive proposition, but most of us never stop to consider the cost of each trip. Unless you live in a city with great public transportation, you use a car for everything. We jump into our cars to commute, run errands, visit friends, go shopping or even just take in the fall foliage.  Be proactive  about your car to keep your ownership costs low.     Here are five ways to make sure that your car remains a manageable expense, rather than a financial black hole.    Don’t cheap out on a mechanic.    When you find a reputable mechanic whom you trust, don’t expect to see bargain basement bills.  Mechanics not only have to stay on top of the ever-changing trends of car engines, but they also need to make sure their (very expensive) tools keep up with cars’ needs and are well maintained.  A knowledgeable mechanic is worth the extra money.  One who doesn’t know what he is doing but will save you a couple of bucks can often cause expensive harm to your car.  This is not the place to try to save.  You’ll spend less in the long run if you’re willing to pay a great mechanic.    Looking for the cheapest mechanic will cost you more money in future repairs, so don’t be  penny wise, pound foolish . Think about the larger picture.    Make smart gas choices.    There may be a great deal of hype about premium fuel options, but most daily drivers are just fine with the lowest octane gas at the pump.  If you’re not sure about your car’s gas needs, check your owner’s manual.  Even if the recommendation is for the premium grade of fuel, chances are that you would only need to fork over for the high-grade stuff in warm weather, when hauling extra weight, or driving on extremely steep mountain roads.  Any other times, save yourself the money.  And if you’re still not sure what your car needs, talk to your mechanic or check the internet message boards devoted to your make and model—there are plenty of them!    Watch the advertised prices as the station. You may  pay more for your gas if you use a credit card , because many stations now charge gas customers different prices depending on whether they use cash or a credit card. You may be able to make up some of the difference with a  gas rewards credit card , but again, make sure the price you pay above the cash price is worth the benefits.    Provided you pay off your credit card each month, this could be a savvy way to reduce your fuel bill each month and keep you motoring for less, as long as you make smart choices.    Take good care of your tires.    Tires are one of the costliest items that you will have to replace during the life of the car.  While they are not made to last forever, you can ensure you get your money’s worth out of each set by practicing good maintenance.  Keeping the tires properly inflated will not only make sure they last but will also save you on fuel efficiency.  Check your tires monthly for underinflation and wear.    Keep your car clean.    If you live in an area with long, cold winters, you’re probably surrounded by cars that are rusting away.  Cars that are exposed to salt will succumb to rust, which can shorten the lifespan of the vehicle.  Especially in winter, you want to make sure that your car is regularly cleaned and waxed to keep the metal safe from the eroding properties of salt.    Similarly, if you notice a chip of paint missing from your body, touch it up!  That spot is open to the elements and salt and will eventually rust over.    Don’t ignore little problems.    A friend’s car was revving but not catching when he turned the ignition.  When he tried again, the car started and he went along his way.  The problem?  He was short on transmission fluid. Had he not topped off that fluid, he could have destroyed his transmission and been looking at a multi-thousand dollar repair bill, plus an out-of-commission car. Because he took care of the problem quickly, he paid just a few dollars for transmission fluid instead of using his maintenance budget for the year in one shot. We can become so used to the idea that we just jump in the car that we can sometimes end up ignoring small warning signs.  If your car is behaving oddly, get it to a trusted mechanic quickly.  Always pay attention to small issues.     Maintaining your car is an investment  that will keep you motoring for years after your less-savvy neighbors and friends have had to replace their vehicles and spent unnecessary costs.      Photo:  sridgway     The original version of this article,  5 Saving Money Tips for Car Owners , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      I’ve noticed over the past few years that the fees and surcharges that appear on my hotel bills are creeping steadily upward. I’m apparently not alone with this observation. According to a new study by Dr. Bjorn Hanson from the NYU School of Continuing and Professional Studies, hotel fees and surcharges will account for $1.8 billion revenue in 2011, up from $1.7 billion in 2010. The increase comes from higher fees as well as more travelers (or escapists) spending time in hotels.    This doesn’t take into account the various taxes that appear on hotel bills. On a recent trip to California, my itemized hotel bill includes an Occupancy Sales Tax (12 percent) and a Convention and Tourism Tax (0.02 percent). In addition to the taxes, if I had done anything in the hotel other than sleep, I might have seen my bill peppered with fees such as telephone calls, internet fees, early check-in fees, late departure fees, business center fees, and if the hotel had been a little nicer, a resort fee.     Here are a few suggestions for avoiding hotel fees and saving money while traveling.     1. Know your fees before you travel.  Unfortunately, many hotels make it difficult to have full knowledge of fees during comparison shopping. If you book your hotel room by using a website that compares rates at a variety of hotel brands, you’re only seeing the full story. Airlines have found this to be an advantage, and hotels are following suit. The least expensive hotel when comparing nightly rates may enforce additional surcharges.    One solution is to look at the individual hotels’ websites, but not every hotel is gracious enough to list all the fees that they may charge. You might have better luck calling the hotel directly and asking for the details.     2. Negotiate your rates.  When I’ve put in an effort, I’ve had some success reducing the overall nightly rates and negotiating removal of some fees, particularly internet access fees. You may not have much room for negotiation if you book your travel using a third-party website or even the hotel’s own online booking system, but taking the small step of calling the hotel — and you just called to ask about fees, anyway — and asking for the best rates and fee considerations can work well. If you can pit one hotel’s offer against a local, comparable hotel’s offer, you could have even more success.     3. Bring your own internet service.  If your business involves the internet, as mine does, you may find you need to be connected more often than not. Earlier this year, I decided to bring the internet with me by getting a mobile WiFi hotspot from my wireless provider, Verizon Wireless. It has helped me in a number of situations where I needed to have internet access while I was away from home. The service can be worthwhile for anyone who travels while needing to be online.     Mobile WiFi may be more expensive than a few nights each month with hotel-provided internet access, but if you need to be online on the road, the service is better than hotel room internet.     4. Avoid resort hotels.  You would think that more expensive hotels would include more services. I’ve seen charges at fancier hotels for services that less expensive hotels offer for free. In a resort hotel, you may find it hard to resist the temptation to take advantage of some of the more unique services, like spa access.      5. Don’t call room service.  If you’re planning for a longer stay, look for kitchen availability in the room and prepare your own meals. With a local grocery store, you could avoid dining out as well as relying on the hotel’s own expensive kitchen.     6. Stay with friends or family rather than the hotel.  If you know your stay won’t be a burden, and you need to travel while spending as little money as possible, you might be successful crashing on a couch as a guest.      7. Couchsurf.  Couchsurfing is one of the newest travel trends. Like the above tip, the comfort of a home often beats a hotel, and you never have to worry about hidden fees. With couchsurfing, you’ll need to trust a stranger as a host, but you can review a potential host’s references on  couchsurfing.com .     8. Carry your own baggage.  If you are staying in a hotel, one of the great conveniences is the presence of porters who help move your bags from the lobby to your room, for a nomial fee encouraged by an outstretched palm. In most cases, this service is unnecessary. This is one of the smaller fees you may be expected to pay, but if your goal is to take the most frugal approach, it’s easily avoidable.     9. Park elsewhere.  If you’re staying at a hotel where space is at a premium, within a city for example, you may be subjecting yourself to a fee for parking. If you must bring a car, you might be able to find a parking lot nearby for less money.      10. Leave yourself enough time to review your bill.  If you’re rushing to check out quickly in order to catch a flight or your next appointment, you might not give your hotel bill the attention it deserves. Some hotels are kind enough to slip your bill under your door early on your check-out date, but if not, leave enough time to review your bill line by line. If there is a charge you don’t agree with, have it removed by talking to the manager. This happened to me on one of the first hotel stays I experienced as an adult responsible for paying the bill — and at a time when I probably didn’t have enough money for taking vacations, anyway.      What’s your favorite hotel fee?     Photo:  kevin dooley     The original version of this article,  10 Ways to Avoid Hotel Fees , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Earlier this year, Discover launched a no balance transfer fee credit card offer that was available for a full three months, an unexpected offer given the trend towards increased balance transfer fees following the recession. Credit cards with these attractive balance transfer offers are generally the least profitable for card issuers, and it had been years since any issuer took a big risk by offering a fee-free balance transfer. Today, Chase has also taken that leap of faith by offering the  Slate® from Chase – Limited Time: No Balance Transfer Fee  credit card offer. I expect this will only be available for a short time, so for anyone who has a high-APR balance on a credit card, this is the perfect opportunity to take advantage of a big discount on interest expenses.        The  Slate® from Chase – Limited Time: No Balance Transfer Fee  offer provides a 0% introductory APR on purchases and balance transfers for 12 months.  This is offered only to applicants who have good or excellent credit. This deal is reserved for the best risks in the eyes of Chase; approved applicants with average credit will receive a 0% introductory APR on balance transfers for only six months.  All other card offers available publicly today come with a fee for balance transfers, usually 3 to 5 percent of the balance transferred. Chase is the only bank currently offering this perk, and this is the only Chase card for which the benefit is available. The 3 percent minimum balance transfer fee charged by other issuers cuts into the savings a balance transfer offer provides.    For example, a cardholder with a $10,000 balance looking for a lower interest rate transfers the entire balance to another credit card. With a 3 percent balance transfer fee, the new balance is already $10,300. With the Slate® from Chase – Limited Time: No Balance Transfer Fee, the new balance would remain $10,000, saving the customer $300 in comparison. The higher the balance transfer, the greater the potential savings.     Once the introductory rate expires, the standard purchase APR on the Slate® from Chase – Limited Time: No Balance Transfer Fee becomes 11.99%, 16.99% or 21.99% variable, depending on quality of credit history.  Chase does not charge an annual fee, so card holders who do not charge beyond their credit limits and who pay their bills on time will never pay Chase a dime for the privilege.     Citibank has been the leader of balance transfer offers, but this no balance transfer fee offer from Chase is putting pressure on Citi. Citi currently offers a  0% introductory APR on purchases and balance transfers for 21 months  (with a 3% fee), so depending on how long a consumer needs to make interest free payments, the Slate from Chase could present a unique opportunity to save even more money.  Remember that this is a very limited time offer so to take advantage, apply for or review more information about the  Slate® from Chase – Limited Time: No Balance Transfer Fee  offer.    The original version of this article,  Slate from Chase Limited Time No Balance Transfer Fee Review , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      When a sales approach reveals itself to be significantly profitable for a company, you can bet those who run that company will want to expand that approach. Last year’s “Black Friday” day-after-Thanksgiving sale on Amazon.com was popular, and this year the major online retailer is extending the event throughout the week leading up to Thanksgiving, and offering publicized deals throughout the entire month of November, counting down to the start of “Black Friday Deals Week.”    The  Black Friday Deals Week Countdown  features electronics, home and kitchen, and jewelry, but Amazon has deals throughout all categories. The featured deals follow the style of Amazon’s “Lightning Deals,” where the retailer offers a usually deeply discounted item every several hours in limited quantities and for a limited time. The deals are not announced ahead of time, so in order to take advantage, shoppers would need to check Amazon.com often.    Shopping online beats running around from store to store on Black Friday, running the risk of being trampled by crazy shoppers. On the other hand, you may miss out on a retailer’s best doorbuster-type deals if you don’t get out of the house. Some companies take advantage of the fact that this is the one time of the year that a large population of consumers are obsessed with finding great deals, and it’s easy for retailers to present an offer as a once-in-a-lifetime discount for shoppers who haven’t properly researched their desires. An event like Black Friday also open the opportunity for retailers to take advantage of the impulse reaction, leading people to buy what they don’t need simply for the feeling of scoring a great deal.    Perhaps I’ve become lazier over the last few years. Except in a few specific situations, namely photography equipment, I’ve found that Amazon.com consistently offers lower prices on the items I find myself needing or wanting most often. I often don’t bother to shop around unless it’s for a major purchase. If Amazon’s price ends up being slightly higher, I don’t worry too much. Thanks to all the money I’ve saved over the past decade, my overall savings compared with shopping at retailers like Best Buy and Circuit City more than make up for the difference.     How closely will you monitor Amazon.com’s  Black Friday Deals Week Countdown?   I might visit the site several times a week to see what the trends are. I haven’t organized a shopping list for the holidays yet.    Related:  Christmas gift ideas under $100  and  best holiday toys for 2011 .    The original version of this article,  Amazon.com’s Month of Black Friday Deals , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      After  Wells Fargo, Chase Bank, SunTrust Bank, and Regions Bank dropped their plans for debit card fees yesterday , the largest bank in the United States, the only bank holding onto its policy of eliminating unprofitable customers by annoying them with inconvenient fees, dropped their own plans to enact a $5 monthly debit card fee in 2012.    The Wall Street Journal is reporting that thanks to customer backlash and likely due to a public relations nightmare, the bank is reversing its policy. It’s a smart move, but is it too late? Bank of America has done a great job burning an imagine in customers’ minds of a bank that is willing to sacrifice its customers — not to recover from a potential loss, but to recover from a lower profit due to regulators’ new rules against excessive interchange fees. Corporations are expected to look for profit under every rock, but this particular type of fee hurts low-income customers much more than high-income customers. You would have been able to avoid the potential fee by having a significant balance of deposits held at the bank, much more than the typical customer might hold.    On Twitter,  Michael Kitces  from  kitces.com  said in response to my comment about the fee cancellation, “I think people that BoA didn’t want as customers still got the message loud & clear, even if BoA drops the fee now.”  Kyle  from  Amateur Asset Allocator  responded, “Doesn’t affect my attitude one way or another. If I were affected, I’d probably just go to cash-only instead of using the debit card.”    This doesn’t affect plans for  Bank Transfer Day . This fee could have been the wake-up call consumers needed to gain the extra motivation to move to a credit union. As we’ve seen with the interchange fee regulation, a window of potential profit closed in one area leads to another window opening somewhere else. Bank of America and the other banks who dropped plans for a debit card fee will find a way to earn their profits, and the next fee may not be nearly as transparent and well-marketed as the debit card fee.    Keep an eye on those bank statements.     Wall Street Journal     The original version of this article,  We Did It: Bank of America Dropping $5 Debit Card Fee Proposal , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      I recently received reader feedback from a conscious saver who is planning to move his money from Wells Fargo to a credit union. She won’t make the  Bank Transfer Day  November 5 goal, because the credit union’s branch is planned to open November 7. This reader plans to be one of the new branch’s first customers.     This reader wrote into Consumerism Commentary not to write about the effort to move away from big banks. She volunteers for charitable organizations and is wondering why there is no tax benefit available for volunteer time. Charitable financial contributions, such as cash, stocks, or property, are often tax-deductible if the organization receiving the donation is a registered non-profit. I’ve taken advantage of these tax deductions for several years, but for me, the purpose of contributing to non-profit organizations is not the tax deduction. The purpose is to legitimately help an organization whose mission is meaningful to me and my worldview.     I’ve been lucky to be in a financial situation where contributing to organizations would not endanger my own bank account. Another method of donation that can have a great effect on an organization is spending time as a volunteer. In my experience, most non-profit organizations do not generate enough revenue from operations or fundraising to maintain a healthy payroll. They often rely on passionate volunteers to handle a large amount of work. If you don’t have a large amount of money to provide an organization, you could be more beneficial to the group by offering your services as an unpaid volunteer.     If the more financially-comfortable money donors receive a benefit from the government for their assistance in the form of a tax deduction, shouldn’t volunteers receive a benefit related to the financial value of their time and work? Furthermore, the requirement that taxpayers need to itemize deductions in order to receive the charitable contribution deduction results in lower-income taxpayers, who are less likely to itemize, don’t take a deduction they might deserve. This tax deduction favors upper middle class and above because they are more likely to have money to share and are more likely to itemize deductions.    The Congressional Budget Office agrees with me: “Such tax incentives are limited, however, to the subset of taxpayers who itemize, and they favor high-income people, who face relatively higher marginal tax rates.”    While the feeling of being a positive force in the world should be a good enough motivator for working with organizations whose missions you’re passionate about, why should one form of contribution be encouraged through tax policy while another is not?    The War Revenue Act of 1917 established the charitable contributions deduction, only four years after the federal income tax as we know it was established. It’s long been a part of the U.S. tax code and isn’t likely to go away, particularly because it’s not only individuals who take advantage of the benefit. Some corporations can deduct up to 10% of their taxable income, and you can be sure that regardless of corporate goals, shareholders want their companies to reduce expenses for taxes as much as possible. Major contributions also constitute great public relations, helping prospective customers associate good deeds with the company.    Understanding that the tax deduction for charitable contributions would never go away without a major overhaul of the U.S. tax code, is there a place for additional deductions for time and effort spent volunteering?    There would be a few challenges.        Fraud.  With a financial transaction, the bank has a record that can be submitted to the IRS for proof if called upon to do so. Without an independent verification of the time spent volunteering, it would be too easy to submit false documentation and take advantage of the system.     Valuation.  How do you put a value on one hour spent as a volunteer? The value of time has always generated good discussion. Is an hour from a CEO who sacrifices the time he could be spending building a company, creating jobs, to be a volunteer more valuable than an hour from a high school student who is looking for opportunities to enhance his college applications? If the CEO spends his time stuffing envelopes with fundraising postcards and the student takes an hour to organize an event having a direct impact on an elderly community, is each hour rated the same?       These issues are not insurmountable, but it would take some planning to develop a method of making the tax deduction verifiable and fair. With tax policy set by lobbyists, we may never see an arrangement like this within the tax code. Unless corporations were to find value in spending time rather than money for charitable causes, there would not be enough pressure on politicians to change the rule.    The reader who brought this idea to my attention also asked the following: “How do we make suggestions to the tax laws?  Is there a process for raising such an issue?”    The first stop is your local Representative and Senators. Send letters, call their offices, and get more people to do the same. Laws can be changed by citizens, but it would take a significant effort. If you feel strongly about the issue, convince others to take up the cause with you.    It’s almost Thanksgiving, so take a page from Arlo Guthrie’s  Alice’s Restaurant.  For people to change even a small aspect of the tax code, it’s going to take a movement. If you’re passionate about this idea, start websites, inspire people to follow, and change the world.    Photo:  Fort Meade     Congressional Budget Office     The original version of this article,  Tax Deduction for Time Spent Volunteering , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Citi has announced one of the biggest credit card sign-up bonuses I’ve seen recently. The  Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card  is now offering a 50,000 ThankYou point bonus for new customers. Card holders need to spend $2,500 over the first three months of ownership to qualify for these bonus points, and as soon as they are credited to a customer’s account, they can be redeemed for $500 in gift cards or $665 in travel. The potential bonus of $665 is the second largest currently offered by any credit card issuer (with the  Southwest Airlines Rapid Rewards® Plus Credit Card  $800 bonus being number one).       In addition to the $665 travel bonus, the Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card offers 1.2 ThankYou points for every dollar spent at gas stations, supermarkets, drugstores, commuter transportation and parking merchants. All other purchases qualify for one point per dollar. Unlike other Citi cards, there is no annual maximum to the amount of possible rewards points. The points never expire.    Citi includes additional perks with the  Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card , including:       Earn points for the miles you fly when you purchase a ticket with your Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card.    Annual ThankYou point bonus of up to 5%.    No foreign transaction fee on purchases.    Annual complimentary domestic companion ticket (within the continental United States) and a 15% discount when booking air travel through Citi’s travel benefits provider.       The Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card purchase APR is 13.99% to 22.99% variable, and the rate a cardholder will receive depends on credit history. The cash advance is an expensive 25.24% and the default APR is 29.99%. These are rates to avoid, so don’t use this card for cash advances and make sure you pay your bill on time to avoid default. The one major drawback you’ll find on this card is the $125 annual fee but it is waived for all first year cardholders.  Make sure you take full advantage of the rewards program and initial bonus if you plan to own this card for a long period of time.    For more information or to file an application online, visit the secure application page for the  Citi ThankYou℠ Premier Card .           The original version of this article,  Citi ThankYou Premier Card $500 Gift Card Bonus , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       While saving money, reducing expenses, and earning income all help improve your net worth, these tactics often ignore the larger picture. Improving your personal human capital is like a form of insurance; you’re protecting your ability to increase your net worth over a long period of time.  Boosting your human capital  through gaining education, adding variety to your experiences, and cultivating your network can help to ensure you’re in a better financial position in the future.      I’m what Carl Jung would call an Introvert.  To be more specific, in the variety of corporate psychological analyses I’ve participated in over the past fifteen years, my result is generally halfway between Introvert and Extravert, though I identify more with the Introvert qualities. This doesn’t mean I always prefer to work by myself or spend time alone; it means that I can draw energy from independent thinking. I am comfortable in social situations with large groups of people as well as working in teams, but rather than drawing energy from this type of socialization, it draws energy from me.     As a result of this energy drain, I haven’t put as much effort into networking as an independent business owner like myself should have. I’ve been building online communities of various types since at least 1990, but I haven’t done a great job with maintaining relationships over time. From a social perspective, I prefer to have a few close contacts than a large number of acquaintances. Not only does this make it difficult for people to get close to me, but it has perhaps damaged my personal human capital.    When to say yes    The overworked and overscheduled business owner receives standard advice: “Know when to say no.” One person cannot do everything, and those who have shown themselves to be experts are often faced with ceaseless requests for assistance. Focusing effort on the 20 percent of requests that have 80 percent of the most relevance to the expert’s own needs, an approach that borrows from the  Pareto principle , might benefit from lighter schedules but might miss the opportunity to have a significant effect on someone’s life.    Keeping in mind that it could be damaging to over-promise and under-deliver, I take the approach of responding to as many requests as possible, looking at each as an opportunity to connect with someone I may not know about.     Both depth and breadth are important    I mentioned above that I’m more comfortable with fewer close relationships than more superficial connections. This limits my capacity for improving my overall human capital. The most beneficial network contains both deep relationships and a wide network.     An individual beginning a new business as a landlord or real estate investor is a good example of someone whose human capital increases significantly with a wide network. In order for an investment to be profitable, unless the investor intends to spend all of his time and effort handling every detail regarding the property, he or she needs to know a variety of people in positions to help. While one can find plumbers, contractors, painters, property managers, and real estate agents by searching online, the best help — and the better deals — would come from people the investor knows personally. Recommendations from friends or other investors could fill in some holes in the network, and every interaction through a recommendation can grow this network.    For someone building a photography business, initial help could come from the deeper relationships in the individual’s inner circle, those who would trust the photographer enough to help build an initial portfolio and be willing to recommend the photographer to friends in the early stages of the business.    The value of online networking tools    LinkedIn has become the one location for the best business-focused networking. Despite this, I am not convinced that online-only networking — or just having a massive contact list — is valuable. I receive connection requests every day from people I’ve never communicated with, whether in person or through email. I don’t see the benefit of growing the list just to have a high connection count, just like the purpose of earning more money or reducing expenses is  not  just to have a larger bank balance.     As LinkedIn has grown, more features seem to invite unwanted messages and self-aggrandizement. I see LinkedIn as an effective contact management system, where you can be sure your most important contacts also offer their latest information. This is much more efficient than maintaining a Little Black Book when contacts frequently change jobs, positions, email addresses, and phone numbers.    Professional organizations    Starting in college, you can join professional organizations that provide opportunities to expand your network and open opportunities that might not have been available otherwise. As a music education major, I re-established the university’s collegiate chapter of a major national organization related to the field. Had I remained in this field, I would have been able to draw upon the contacts I established at this organization for professional opportunities. (You never know what path your life might take, but it doesn’t hurt to prepare for the path you intend to take at any particular time.)    In my career as an independent financial blogger, it was rewarding to establish an informal association of like-minded writers. As a small, tightly-knit group, we could easily share ideas and best practices to help our budding businesses grow.    Mentoring relationships    Focusing on the depth rather than breadth of connections, the relationship between a mentor and protege can be a helpful for building personal human capital. Seeking a respected individual in your field to play the role of a mentor can help you have an avenue for asking direct questions where the answers will help you reach your goals. No matter where you are in life, there is always someone from whom you can learn. Even the most successful individuals in the world find time to speak to people they respect to come away from a discussion with more ideas or tools.    At the same time, being a mentor can be very rewarding. Often, a protege asks a question that forces you to solidify your thoughts and opinions. By talking through your approach to any particular issue helps you think about details that may seem self-explanatory. In the variety of relationships in which I’ve served as a mentor, I’ve found that I’ve learned more about myself and my life and business have both improved as a result.    One danger in this relationship is being defined by the role in nominal terms. Mentors can learn from proteges. Everyone has something to offer.    Five tips for building an effective human network        Be authentic.  Don’t present yourself as someone you’re not.     Reciprocate.  Don’t take more from a relationship than you’re prepared to give. Say yes often.     Focus on depth and breadth.  Don’t just be a contact collector. Add depth to the relationships that matter most.     Facilitate connections.  Rather than focusing solely on the relationships that will help you, note where your contacts will benefit from building a relationship with your other connections.     Follow meetings with a message.  Responding or connecting quickly after a meeting will help build relationships faster.        Do you have any additional tips for networking? What has worked well for you?     Photo:  TheBigTouffe     The original version of this article,  Boost Your Human Capital: Cultivate Your Network , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Consumer outrage and backlash does work, apparently. Wells Fargo Bank and Chase Bank have been  testing debit card fees in a small number  of locations within the United States, but due to the anger unleashed after the largest bank, Bank of America, announced it would add a $5 debit card fee in 2012, the two smaller (but still very large) banks backpedaled. Wells Fargo and Chase are unwinding their test plans, and the bank executives have decided not to continue charging more customers for the benefit of accessing their own funds on deposit.      A customer who deposits cash in a checking or savings account has been traditionally doing the banks a favor by allowing them to initiate loans based on the funds held in deposit. In return of this favor, banks paid depositors interest. With banks not lending as much as they have in the past, banks are in no rush to acquire depositors. Thus, they can pay much less interest and increase fees. They’re happy to drive customers away.     Bank spokespeople also cite new regulations as rationalization for new fees. Particularly, the interchange fees banks charge retailers for accepting debit cards at the point of sale are now limited. In effect, banks are switching revenue-generation from retailers to depositors. With this new swipe fee regulation, retailers are now more protected than consumers.     Bank of America’s new debit card fee policy stirred public unrest, and from a public relations standpoint, Chase and Wells Fargo would do well to avoid more public outrage. That won’t be the end of this story for Wells Fargo and Chase. Corporations need to answer to their shareholders, and investors will not want to see a bank willingly part with revenue potential. While the banks are still making great profits in a “post-bailout” environment, expect the executives to tap another source. Be on the look-out for new fees now that certain banks are avoiding debit card fees.    Related:  See my article, “The Bank-Fee Wake-Up Call,”  on US News & World Report’s “My Money” blog.     Update:  In response to the announcements from Wells Fargo and Chase, Bank of America offers a response. The bank will revamp its debit card fees, presumably by lowering the $20,000 minimum to avoid the monthly debit card fee. The bank has not made a decision, though, and unless the bank sees a mass exodus, expect the $5 debit card fee in 2012.     Second update:  The finance industry, minus Bank of America, is continuing to listen to customers. SunTrust and Regions Bank have announced that their customers will no longer be subject to the new debit card fees. This leaves Bank of America on its own. Will the largest bank buckle?    Photo:  neoliminal     Reuters     The original version of this article,  More Banks Drop Debit Card Fees , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       This article is written by Consumerism Commentary’s columnist, Ellen Cooper-Davis. Ellen’s column looks at the role of spirituality within the context of personal finance. For an introduction to this column, see Ellen’s first article,  The Pastor and the Purse . Your feedback is welcome.     It’s time for a little geography lesson.    Look at the tag in your pants. Right there, below the strict instructions not to put them in the drier, which you, like me, probably ignore, it tells you where your pants were born. “Made in Mauritius,” my pants tell me.  The magic Interwebs let me know that this is a tiny island nation off the southeast coast of Africa.     Now I am curious. Because in my experience, small island nations don’t necessarily fare well where clothing manufacturing is concerned. So even though a part of me doesn’t really want to know…I check on the labor practices of the manufacturer. The results are  not encouraging .      This means I will have to find a different source of pants. And since I’ve raised the question of ethics in manufacturing, it also means I’m more likely to intentionally seek out brands of clothing that have higher standards.  Oh, sure, I could shrug and try to forget I ever looked that up, or pretend that sweatshop labor does not clash with my values at all… but it does. And I did. And that’s the problem. Once you know something, you can’t un-know it.    Most of us move through our consumer lives in blissful ignorance. We don’t know where our clothing, gadgets, trinkets come from, and frankly, we don’t care. We just want them to look good, work well, and entertain us. We don’t want to know about  child labor  or  sweatshop labor  or  toxins . Because if we knew — if we really allowed ourselves to open our eyes and see the truth, and to notice the places where this truth grates against our most deeply-held truths — then we would  have to change.     Ignorance isn’t really bliss. It’s just ignorance. As a society, we would never tolerate knowing nothing about where our food comes from. We want some reasonable assurance that it is safe to eat, that it will nourish us, that it is what it says it is. Why would we deliberately embrace ignorance when it comes to materials, labor conditions and sources of other consumer goods? After all, those are real human beings on the other end of our supply chain. To pretend otherwise is not only ignorance, but dangerous.    In some ways, this is the essence of any spiritual path. It is about taking the teachings and values of that path, and aligning your real, everyday life with them. This includes what we do, what we say, how we treat people, and what and how we consume. It isn’t easy, and no one does it perfectly, but we can all start where we are. I can start with my next grocery trip, or the next time I need new socks. I can start with rearranging my investment portfolio, or I can start by exploring fair trade gifts for this holiday season.  Here, at the intersection of soul and money, there are hard questions to be asked.  If I am who I say I am, what must I do?      What consumer goods do you research from a values perspective?  What do you wish you could evaluate from that perspective, but don’t know how? What would you prefer to remain totally ignorant about? Are there any “lines in the sand” for you, issues or practices that you absolutely do not tolerate in your consumer choices?    The original version of this article,  Spirituality and Money: Knowing is Only Half the Battle , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Today on the  Consumerism Commentary Podcast , Bryan speaks with Kristen Christian of  Bank Transfer Day  about why she got tens of thousands of people to agree to move to a credit union.    They discuss why banks keep adding fees after posting significant profits, clearing up misconceptions about who can join a credit union, how to find one and what to expect.     Consumerism Commentary Podcast    Bank Transfer Day: S06E02 / 160   	   		  		   		  		  		  		  		  		   			   			 			  		 		  	      jQuery(document).ready(function($) {  	$('#wp_mep_4').mediaelementplayer({  		m:1  		  		,features: ['playpause','current','progress','duration','volume','tracks','fullscreen']  		,audioWidth:400,audioHeight:  	});  });         Download  –  RSS  –  iTunes      
      The Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) has advised the managers of super-secret hedge funds, investments of the most wealthy, that they will soon need to disclose more information to the regulators. Highly leveraged hedge funds contributed to the economic collapse, but the pressure to increase oversight has been mostly ignored by the industry. In response to heavy lobbying by the industry, the SEC has scaled back the requirements the commission intended to issue, leaving softer regulation likely to be ineffective.    Hedge fund managers like to keep their operations secret. If managers were required to report underlying investments, trades, and strategies, they might be at a disadvantage. Like a patented formula for creating pharmaceutical drugs, hedge fund managers rely on their proprietary operations to ensure no imitators and no rogue competitors using their strategies to cause them to fail. Most fund managers need to report their funds’ financial details publicly, with statements that outline the funds’ holdings, risk profile, expenses, and strategy. Hedge funds do not have this requirement.    The new SEC regulations allow hedge funds to file a minimum amount of data pertaining to the investments, and the filing will not be available to the public. Only a small committee within the SEC will be privileged enough to see the information. Additionally, only hedge funds with $1.5 billion in assets will be required to report the most detailed information to the SEC. Funds with over $500 million in assets need only report the extent that the investments are leveraged. Hedge funds with $150 million in assets or left will not be required to report anything.     The required reporting, which grows out of the financial crisis three years ago, is meant to allow financial regulators to monitor the risks that the funds may pose to the nation’s overall financial system, something that officials at the Federal Reserve, the Treasury Department and the S.E.C. did not have during the crisis.     By focusing on the largest hedge funds, it may seem like the new reporting requirements will achieve this goal of monitoring and evaluating systemic risk. Considering that the largest hedge funds can still get away with reporting vague information about their underlying investments, the SEC may still miss big risks.    Should hedge funds be subject to the same scrutiny as publicly traded companies? Does the idea that very few investors take advantage of hedge funds release these managers from public accountability?     New York Times     The original version of this article,  Should Hedge Funds Receive Special Treatment? , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      By executive order, President Obama has made a few minor changes to the student loan industry designed to help students and former students with unmanageable student loan debt. Anyone who began their undergraduate studies in 2006 probably did so with the reasonable assumption that they’d have a job after graduation. By the time these students graduated with bachelors’ degrees, the economic situation offered a different reality. The unemployment rate for Americans between the ages of 20 and 24 as of September 2011 was 14.7% according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.    Last year, the total amount of  student loan debt surpassed credit card debt  for the first time. Student loans and the value of an education is now such a popular debate that it sparked a discussion at dinner last night with several colleagues. With tuition costs rising much faster than inflation, the only financially responsible path to take is for a family to carefully consider  whether the expense of college is worth the benefit . If the only benefit is perceived in terms of financial return on investment (ROI), it can be very difficult in many cases to justify private school tuition.      One liberal arts graduate at the table pointed out that there is more to gain from education than immediate high salaries, and this is something that I’ve discussed recently in terms of  building human capital . The expense of higher education is subject to  Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs . While citizens of the United States often consider higher education as a right, it is a privilege. While everyone should go to college, or at least have the opportunity to do so, being able to afford a school that matches any student’s skills and desires can be beyond financial reach.     It is possible to earn a degree without going into debt , but when part of the American dream is providing every opportunity for our children to succeed without barriers, finances often don’t stand in the way. To make those dreams happen, someone often needs to sacrifice the future. Today, former students are sacrificing their financial well-being for the opportunity to have completed their degree at their preferred institution.    Last year, Congress agreed to some changes to the student loan industry to help students and former students struggling with student loan debt, and Obama’s “Pay As You Earn” plan expands on these benefits  for students with federal student loans, not private loans, with at least one loan borrowed directly from the government and one borrowed from a bank.        In 2012, borrowers will be able to reduce their monthly payments from 15% to 10% of their discretionary spending. The original law waited until 2014 to make this change.    In 2012, borrowers will be able to forgive the balance of their loans after 20 years of faithful payments, up from 25 years. Last year’s law would have put this into effect in 2014.    Student loan consolidation will return, allowing current and recent students to save up to 50 basis points on their loans.       The student loan industry is dysfunctional. The availability of student loans makes it possible for colleges and universities to raise tuition without significantly affecting demand. By not solving the problem of rising tuition prices, the government gives a boost to the organizations, both semi-public and private, that finance and underwrite student loans. Furthermore, student loan debt is not forgivable in bankruptcy, unlike almost all other forms of debt. In a volatile job market,  it’s riskier to have a student loan than it is to have credit card debt.     I’d like to have children at some point, and I’d like for them to have the opportunity to attend college. I would not like for them to need to sacrifice a significant portion of their future in order for them to receive the education that’s best for them. At this rate in two decades, a college education at a private school will be unaffordable for middle class families without student loan debt that requires a lifetime of servitude.     Photo:  JoshBerglund19     Bureau of Labor Statistics ,  CBS News ,  New York Times     The original version of this article,  Obama’s Student Loan Plan , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      As I’ve pointed out recently, banking customers have grown accustomed to the concept of free checking. Thanks to profits in the banking industry from a variety of sources, banks could justify offering checking account services, including debit cards, without charging any fees. The industry has changed over the past year, and many banks, particularly large financial institutions, are finding ways to earn more money from depositors.    Only a few banks remain that offer competitive interest rates — and in today’s environment these rates are nothing exciting — without charging oversized fees. For a limited time, EverBank is attracting new customers with a $60 cash bonus after opening a  Yield Pledge Checking Account .       The amount of $60 has become a special number recently. Bank of America’s new debit card fee is $5 per month, or $60 annually. EverBank has devised the clever idea that turning the $60 from a fee to a benefit might be a good way to attract customers. Whether you consider it a gimmick or not, free money can help anyone.     EverBank has some requirements for new customers wishing to earn the $60 cash bonus. The bank doesn’t give $60 to every new customer. Those seeking the bonus will need to be aware of the bank’s conditions for qualification.       The  Yield Pledge Checking Account  must be opened by  November 30, 2011  with an initial deposit of at least $1,500.    New customers must establish a repeating direct deposit of at least $500 before January 31, 2012.    Accounts must have an average daily balance of $1,500 for statement periods ending December 31, 2011 and January 31, 2012.    The account must remain open until February 29, 2012.       For any new customer who meets the above conditions, EverBank will deposit the $60 cash bonus into the account on or before February 29, 2012. Furthermore, if you use your Yield Pledge Checking Account and are not satisfied after three months and one successful bill payment, EverBank will give you $50.    As an added bonus unrelated to the special promotional offer, EverBank will reimburse users for all ATM fees, regardless of whether the ATM is included within the EverBank network. There is no maximum to this reimbursement as long as EverBank believes the reimbursement requests are legitimate.    EverBank Yield Pledge Checking Account Rates             	   		  Account Balance   Interest Rate (APY)   	         	   		  $100,000 - $10,000,000   0.76%   	   	   		  $50,000 - $99,999   0.71%   	   	   		  $25,000 - $49,999   0.61%   	   	   		  $10,000 - $24,999   0.56%   	   	   		  $9,999 or less   0.46%   	              EverBank is not as well-known as many other banks because they don’t advertise often. The bank has over $12 billion in assets, so even if the bank is not popular, it is sizable. There is no monthly account maintenance fee for the Yield Pledge Checking Account. If the latest offer interests you, sign up for an  EverBank checking account  and earn the $60 cash bonus before the offer expires on November 30, 2011.    The original version of this article,  EverBank Checking Account Offering $60 Cash Limited Time Bonus , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Steve Jobs may not have been as wealthy as his arch-nemesis Bill Gates, but after his successes with Apple and Pixar, he was one of the world’s richest men. Forbes recently listed Jobs as 39th on the Forbes 400, a list of the richest people in America, with a net worth of $7 billion. The author of Jobs’ biography has been offering some insight into the billionaire’s life in advance of the book’s release. Some of the insight pertains to his attitude towards being rich.    As success came to Jobs and his colleagues, he observed the effect of the influx of wealth after Apple became a public company. An excess of money turned those who benefited from the company stock into “bizarro people” who purchased unnecessary things like Rolls Royces and plastic surgery. Jobs said he wanted to avoid “that nutso lavish lifestyle.” Although he could afford to upgrade his lifestyle, Jobs lived with his family in a modest house in Palo Alto and didn’t hire help or an entourage.     Jobs was’t a complete stranger to living a finer life than most of the country could afford. He owned an apartment in The San Remo, a building in New York that featured residents including Steven Spielberg, Steve Martin, and Bono. Steve also owned a 17,000 square foot mansion in California. While he didn’t own a Rolls Royce, he drove a 2008 Mercedes SL 55 AMG.    If Steve Jobs gave to charitable causes, he didn’t want anyone to know. There is virtually no record of Jobs sharing his wealth with causes needing funding, unlike many of the other billionaires outranking him. His direction for the posthumous distribution of his wealth is not public information. While many have criticized Jobs for not being a philanthropic role model, using his wealth to inspire others to focus on worthy causes, those with opposing viewpoints argue that his work building a successful company, creating wealth for others as well as revolutionary technology that, among other things, facilitate larger and faster contributions to these worthy causes, has done enough to improve the world.     It’s a weak argument, but it’s one that caters to the more capitalistic approach to philanthropy. It relies on the idea that by providing salaries to his employees, they will go out and accomplish the philanthropic goals that Jobs did not set for himself. The argument assumes that organizations using iPhones, iPads, and MacBooks to collect funds wouldn’t have been just as capable with other devices. Furthermore, the argument ignores that Jobs shut down corporate philanthropy on his return to Apple in order to save money. Did reducing charitable expenses play a significant role in saving the company?    Despite some fancy homes that often went unused and a moderately flashy car, Jobs seems to have taken the ideology of   The Millionaire Next Door   to heart. He continued to live his life mostly as he always had, not flaunting his wealth and not drawing too much attention to himself outside of his job responsibilities. For someone whose motto and company marketing slogan was “Think different,” Jobs appeared to desire to keep his differences unseen.      The Millionaire Next Door  changed the way people think about millionaires. Most millionaires worked hard building a company to earn money. They didn’t earn it. They tend to blend in with their surroundings, not flaunt their wealth. Those who buy items as status symbols tend not to be wealthy (purchasing items on credit) or are wealthy only temporarily due to overspending. This idea of an understated millionaire, comfortable with his wealth and free of a need to prove himself, seems to fit the profile of Steve Jobs.    It’s perhaps an approach that would befit anyone who found himself with any amount of wealth beyond what is needed to afford the necessities of life.    Photo:  Annie Bannanie 06     Business Insider ,  Examiner ,  Forbes ,  Forbes #2 ,  Washington Post     The original version of this article,  Steve Jobs: The Billionaire Next Door , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
       Your  personal human capital  is an essential part of evaluating your overall worth. Human capital has a number of definitions, but in this case, it refers to a measurement of who you are, particularly in relation to how you might be seen as valuable to an employer or a client. This isn’t the only way to define a person, but since it ties directly into your future earnings and your potential net worth, it is related to finance and shouldn’t be ignored. It’s as important, or even more important, than your net worth measurement.     Consider two job applicants with identical technical skills and education, both pertaining to the job description, and a similar personality that could result in either choice being a good fit for the company. One of the applicants has indicated that he has often been called upon to present information about hie field to the public. Having presentation skills can make a prospective employee more attractive to the employer. The ability to eloquently, entertainingly, and comfortably lead a discussion or present information in front of an audience can open opportunities.    Anyone can throw together a Powerpoint presentation together, but delivering that presentation isn’t as easy as reading the bullet points. Anyone can write a speech, but elocution is a skill that requires careful honing.     Most people in “business” head directly to Toastmasters. Toastmasters uses a standardized curriculum and a safe practice environment that allows people to receive the education and experience they need to take their presenting skills to the next level. My former company, at the satellite location where I worked, had an internal Toastmasters group. We met once every two weeks to critique each other’s speeches or presentations and gain experience speaking extemporaneously about random topics assigned in the moment.    Outside of Toastmasters, you can gain experience speaking and presenting by organizing an event in your community. Libraries offer these opportunities as do community centers and religious organizations. If your field of interest holds conferences, try to get on the schedule of speakers.     Public speaking is acting and performing    Stage fright is a common barrier to increasing public speaking experience. There are two keys to overcoming stage fright or performance anxiety: being overly prepared and breathing properly. Even though the solution is simple, it isn’t always easy. Even veteran actors deal with stage fright, so it isn’t something that is easily cured even it can be managed. Acting experience can be beneficial for public speaking, as many of the skills are similar. In addition to acting, any kind of performance experience — music, dance, etc. — can have positive effects on confidence and the ability to successfully deliver a speech.    Acting also helps develop a performer’s presence. If you’re speaking publicly, you’ll need to have a presence that’s informative and trusted. The best speakers are sometimes described as “larger than life.” You know when they walk into a room that whatever they have to say will be worth hearing.    Actors develop emotional communication skills. Without saying a word, an actor can convey an emotion. The audience will be able to understand what the actor is thinking or feeling. Skilled actors can transmit those emotions to the audience, so the spectators can sympathetically feel what the actor is feeling. This is an invaluable skill for speakers. It could mean the difference between a good presentation and a speech that has the audience on the edge of their seats.     How do you suggest gaining public speaking experience?     The original version of this article,  Boost Your Human Capital: Public Speaking , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      If you want to know how much credit card debt Americans have, don’t ask the borrowers. For years, economists have sought debt data from both borrowers and lenders for credit card debt and four other debt categories. Borrowers report their debt balances by responding to household surveys, like the Survey of Consumer Finances. Lenders report debt to the credit reporting bureaus such as Equifax.     Relying on self-reported information for studies is always a risky approach if you’re planning to make any scientific assumptions based on the data. Everybody lies. Or, in some cases, people think they know the answer to a question about how or why they do something, but the truth remain undetected. Asking a population of consumers  if they will transfer all their money from a big bank to a credit union  will always result in overstating the number, as people tend to respond as if they were their ideal versions of themselves. Surely, a quantifiable question such as their debt balances shouldn’t be subject to this kind of error.    In fact, for most types of credit card debt, the self-reported balances match the issuer-reported balances. In only one category is there a discrepancy: credit cards.    Binyamin Applebaum from the Economix Blog explores some of the possible reasons that consumers misreport credit card debt. Among the possibilities:    Shame    Most of the other debt categories reported, such as student loans and home mortgages, tend to be socially acceptable. A consumer who feels embarrassed about a behavior or a state of being, there’s a chance he or she will be less willing to report it on a survey. Personal bankruptcies, on the other hand, could also be embarrassing, but households report them correctly.    Ignorance.    The study comparing the two debt reporting approaches show that single people report their credit card accurately while households do not. Household surveys are generally answered by only one person within the household, and that person may not be aware of the other person’s debt, even if the family has chosen to combine accounts.     Interpretation.    If someone were to ask me how much credit card debt I have, I’d say I have none. My  latest balance sheet  (net worth report) shows that is false. At the end of each month, I have a balance on my credit cards. I pay my credit card balance in full every month before it is due, but a snapshot on any date would show that I have a balance. People like me might report that they have no credit card debt, particularly if the question is not explained well on the survey. The issuers see it differently. They report a balance to the credit bureaus even if the issuers expect (or would expect if they note patterns) the borrower to pay in full.    When correcting for these issues, the researchers who conducted the study comparing the two reporting techniques still couldn’t explain the remaining discrepancy. Issuers reported more than twice the amount of credit card debt borrowers reported. The only possible conclusion is that people just don’t know how much they owe on credit cards. The study concludes that “uninformedness” is the problem. People just don’t know how much credit card debt they have, even if statements make this information easily accessible, at least on a monthly basis.    Two important steps in taking control of your finances are to  take an inventory , finding where you stand in every financial account including debt, and to  track your money , knowing how much is coming in and going out, and when these changes happen.     Do you know how much credit card debt you have? Do you think it matches what your credit card issuers say you have?      Federal Reserve Bank of New York  [pdf] via  Economix     The original version of this article,  Under-reporting Personal Household Debt , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Almost ten years ago, the government passed a law that made electronic images of paper checks just as legitimate as the paper checks themselves. As banks implemented the law, it saved time and money by allowing banks of first deposit to scan checks after a customers deposit them for verification with the originating bank. With an image of a check being accepted in place of a paper check, more banks have begun implementing a convenience to customers as well.    Businesses were the first customers to receive these benefits. For a business that receives thousands of checks every day, bringing the physical paper checks to a branch for deposit can be an expensive and time-consuming process, fraught with the possibility of security problems with the checks in transit. Banks have offered business the option of remote deposit. With this service, the customer can scan checks using a specialized imagine device (check scanner) and transmit the images securely over the Internet or a private network connection. The funds are then available immediately rather than overnight.     With this success, banks are in the process of extended similar features to non-business customers. With the proliferation of cell phones with built-in, high-megapixel camera, banks can now offer deposits using snapshots of checks sent via text message or custom smartphone apps. For these customers, no bulky desktop scanner is necessary, and there’s no need to be home to make the deposit. You can effectively deposit checks from your mailbox down the street or from your grandmother’s house on your birthday.     Business customers still have the advantages, with very few banks actively offering this service to non-business customers. The number of banks offering this service to consumers is increasing, however.    Remote deposit is most useful for banks that don’t have local branches, like  these online banks . ING Direct, still bloggers’  most favorite bank , is working to implement remote check deposit soon, but with the bank’s planned acquisition by Capital One it’s unclear when new features will be added.  ING Direct recently began offering paper checks  to customers, so remote deposit capture may not be too far behind.     Chase Bank  offers apps for iOS and Android devices. The application allows customers to log into their bank accounts. To deposit a check, take a picture of the front and back, and send the images securely to Chase using the application. The deposit will be recorded as pending immediately, though availability will depend on the bank’s typical schedule, usually next business day availability for local checks. The availability schedule has several variables, though, so always check with the bank to determine when the funds you deposit will be available.     Ally Bank  has offered remote deposit for customers since April 2011, but the bank has just recently opened the program to all customers. Ally’s eCheck Deposit service requires a scanner and some manual work, such as inputting the check amount (shouldn’t this be automatically read when scanned?) and aligning the images. Ally plans to offer a mobile application soon.    The USAA Bank mobile application for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone 7 includes a feature allowing remote deposit. Deposit@Mobile requires the customer to enter the check amount, take one photo of the front of the check and one photo of the back, and submit the images to the bank through the application. The bank will confirm the deposit amount.     Have you used your bank’s remote deposit service? If so, what did you think of the experience?     The original version of this article,  Banks Offering Remote Deposit , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      The fourth largest bank in the United States by assets, Wells Fargo, admitted last week that many of its customers received statements with other customers’ banking information included. In this security breach, those affected might have received a statement with a stranger’s account number, transaction detail, and in some cases, Social Security number. Other affected customers might have had their information compromised, with their details included on other customers’ statements, without their knowledge.    Wells Fargo through its spokesman Josh Dunn blamed the error on a “malfunctioning printer.”     The biggest threat is that with an account name and number, and a bank’s routing number which is public information, anyone can easily print a check. When presented, if the signature isn’t checked, could result in a withdrawal from the compromised customer’s account. For those whose Social Security numbers have been shared, the potential fraud could be worse.     My first reaction is to encourage customers to turn off paper statements opting instead for online statements only, but that won’t prevent every potential bank error. Online statements are much more secure than mailed statements.    If you’ve been affected, I would suggest changing your account number at Wells Fargo. This may be a significant process, particularly if you have direct deposit enabled or automated debits scheduled with outside vendors. It will be worth the effort, however, to ensure the compromised account number is no longer linked to you. If you Social Security number has been shared with a stranger, you should contact one of the credit reporting bureaus to freeze your credit. Your Social Security number can be used to open accounts in your name, using your credit history, so by working with the credit agencies you can opt to be notified if anyone tries to open a new line of credit.     Considering Wells Fargo’s error, the bank should offer to pay for credit monitoring services for affected customers.     Is this extra motivation for moving your money out of a big bank?  There are many reasons to  switch to a credit union , but this may not be a reason on its own. Mistakes like this one can happen at any institution, regardless of the company’s size.     I’ve used Wells Fargo for my primary banking services, ever since Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia, since Wachovia acquired First Union, since First Union acquired CoreStates, since Philadelphia National Bank merged with New Jersey National Bank forming CoreStates Financial Corporation.     If you’re a Wells Fargo customer, do you plan to close your account after this incident?     Photo:  MoneyBlogNewz     BusinessWeek (AP)     The original version of this article,  Wells Fargo Sent Statements to Wrong Customers , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Today on the  Consumerism Commentary Podcast , Bryan and Flexo talk with Sarah from  The $60K Project  about how she and her partner Mike paid off many thousands in debt in less than a year, what they learned along the way, and what they want to do now that they can afford to take some risks.     Consumerism Commentary Podcast    The $60K Project: S06E01 / 156   	   		  		   		  		  		  		  		  		   			   			 			  		 		  	      jQuery(document).ready(function($) {  	$('#wp_mep_5').mediaelementplayer({  		m:1  		  		,features: ['playpause','current','progress','duration','volume','tracks','fullscreen']  		,audioWidth:400,audioHeight:  	});  });         Download  –  RSS  –  iTunes      
       Money and things have never been important to me.   Do you agree or disagree with this statement?  (That is, assuming the statement is about you, the reader, not me, Flexo.)     If you do agree with this statement, according to a new study released by Brigham Young University and William Paterson University, you would be more likely to score highly in measurements of emotional maturity and responsiveness to partners. In other words, less materialistic people are happier in their marriages.      According to the study, researchers tend to believe that stress in relationships is a result of each partner having a different attitude toward money. Perhaps one side of the relationship is more materialistic than the other side, and this divergence of attitudes would create tension in the relationship. This study, which surveyed 1,734 married couples, shows that even when everyone within the relationship has the same attitude towards money — an attitude that emphasizes the importance of money and things — there is a correlation to a lower level of marital happiness or satisfaction.    These results can be applied to couples. For a better chance of happiness in a relationship, let go of the focus on money, particularly the idea that the purpose of money is to accumulate objects that reflect a status of some sort.     The study further concluded that even if one member of the couple lived by a philosophy not based on the accumulation of material objects, the relationship is better off from a satisfaction standpoint. Even if the philosophies differ and the couple would be expected to live in conflict over the philosophical divergence, having just one member willing to look beyond materialism correlates to more marital bliss.    Regardless of level of income, the correlation continues. Couples struggling to make ends meet and couples with financial security are both affected similarly by the state of materialistic attitudes in the relationship. The study also shows that materialistic couples tend to be better off financially. The philosophy may pay off from a strictly financial standpoint; then again, divorces can be costly and could negate any financial advantage gained by approaching life with a focus on buying more stuff.    Materialism, as measured by this survey, is linked to  ineffective communication with the significant other , increased negative conflict, and decreased satisfaction and stability in the relationship. This isn’t necessarily a cause-and-effect relationship. The study doesn’t show that materialism  causes  problems in a relationship, but there is a correlation. There could be an outside variable that induces one to be more materialistic and induces one to tend towards negative conflict.     Is the financial advantage of being overly concerned about money and things worth the risk of being less satisfied in a marriage?     Photo:  seanmcgrath     Journal of Couple & Relationship Therapy  via  TIME     The original version of this article,  Materialistic People Less Happy in Marriages But Have More Money , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
      Some small business owners find that they can more easily organize their accounting if they have a credit card dedicated to business purchases. For business owners who haven’t established credit in the business’s name, credit card issuers generally rely on the owner’s credit history. So even without a business credit history, it’s possible to be approved. Many small business cards are offering up-front rewards for signing up. The newest offer on the market is the  CitiBusiness® World Card , offering new account holders a $100 bonus in the form of points.       New customers must spend $300 on the card during the first three months to qualify for this sin-up bonus. When a new cardholder satisfies this requirement, Citi will add 10,000 ThankYou points to his or her account immediately. Customers can redeem these points for cash, travel, or $100 in gift cards. The Citi Business World Card also offers points for every purchase using the following schedule.       Three ThankYou Points for every dollar spent on purchases at certain office supply merchants and on professional services.    One ThankYou Point per dollar spent on other purchases.       Also, business owners who order additional cards for employees will earn ThankYou Points for the employees’ purchases.    Unfortunately, the conversion between ThankYou Points and cash back is not the standard consumers have come to expect. Normally, card issuers allow a conversion of 100 points to one dollar in cash back. The ThankYou Points convert at that rate when redeeming gift cards, and most customers will find this to be the best use of the points. ThankYou points never expire. Unlike most Citi consumer (non-business) cards, there is no limit to the amount of points a business owner can earn each year.    One of the strongest benefits of the  CitiBusiness® World Card  is that it functions similarly to a charge card while still maintaining the features of a credit card. The card has no pre-set spending limit, so if a customer completes a purchase that causes the account to exceed the stated credit limit, Citi may still approve the transaction, without assessing a penalty or fee. If Citi does approve a purchase that sends a cardholder over the limit, the issuer allows a full statement cycle to pass to pay the over-limit amount before charging interest and fees. It’s the only card I know of that offers this feature, which could come in handy in some situations.    Citi also provides a 0% introductory APR on purchases for six months, and after this introductory period, the rate reverts to the standard of 13.24% variable, which is considered low in today’s market. With no annual fee, the  CitiBusiness® World Card  is a great option for any business owner looking to make organizing finances a little easier.    The original version of this article,  CitiBusiness World Card Offering $100 Bonus , is copyrighted by  Consumerism Commentary . If you are reading this elsewhere you may be reading a stolen article.                                                                   
                                                      While many of us will reflect on our blessings as we gather with friends or family tomorrow for Thanksgiving Day, we predict that Robert L. Hanson’s celebration will be particularly festive.    As American Eagle Outfitters, Inc. (AEO)  announced  last week, the company named Hanson as its new Chief Executive Officer and a director, starting January 30, 2012. Hanson, who capped a 23-year career with Levi’s by serving as its Global President, was chosen to succeed retiring American Eagle CEO, Jim O’Donnell, who  has been in the top job since December, 2002.    The company filed Hanson’s new 3-year  employment agreement  as an attachment to this  8-K , which arrived as part of last week’s official “Friday Night Dump.” And – as employment agreements go – this one is no turkey.    For starters, Hanson gets a signing bonus of $3.339 million, to be paid sometime between January 1 and January 13, 2012. If he doesn’t start when he’s supposed to, or if he leaves within a year or is terminated for cause, he might have to repay the money.    The “side dish” terms Hanson got are pretty tasty, too. His base salary will start at $1.03 million, and Hanson agreed that any money exceeding $1 million will be deposited into his Deferred Compensation Plan each year. (That money will vest in thirds over the next three anniversaries of Hanson’s start date.)    American Eagle Outfitters also promised to give Hanson – for FY 2012 only – a long term equity incentive compensation award worth $3.2 million. In addition, it’s giving him a restricted stock unit award worth $2.5 million and a stock option grant for common stock with a grant date value equal to another $2.5 million. Both the number of the RSUs and the exercise price for the options will be tied to the company’s stock price on the day that Hanson reports for work. That’s an extra $8.2 million, and – like many a Thanksgiving dinner – we haven’t even gotten to the dessert terms yet.    Also, for FY 2012, his maximum incentive cash bonus will be 130% of his base salary. However, starting in  FY 2013  “the target incentive bonus shall be 130% of his base salary and the maximum incentive bonus shall be 260% of his base salary.” (Lucky Hanson: Here’s another thing for him to be grateful for! We noticed that the 8-K’s summary differs slightly and states: “…beginning with the  2014 fiscal year , the target incentive bonus shall be 130% of his base salary and the maximum bonus shall be 260% of his base salary…”  [Emphasis added to highlight the year.]  It doesn’t really matter which document is “correct” since the signed contract trumps the summary any day of the week. Those are the terms that a court would enforce.)    Hanson will also get up to $15,000 in legal fees, “a single luxury automobile for both business and personal use” (alas, it’s not giving him a tax gross-up on the car), and a relocation package so that he can move to a home “in reasonable proximity” to either the company’s headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania or its New York, New York offices within 6 months of taking the job. The house-hunting clause come with a little extra whipped cream that entitles Hanson to take his time and find just the right home. It allows him:       “i) travel expenses for up to six (6) house hunting trips for Executive and a companion and (ii) household goods moving expenses, relocation allowances, temporary living expenses, and other relocation costs or expenses to which the parties agree….”       And finally, the parties also signed a  Change in Control Agreement  that promises Hanson severance (2x his annual compensation), a pro-rated bonus, 18 months’ of benefits under COBRA, and accelerated vesting of his equity interests if a change in control occurs.    With a new deal worth more than $12.6 million (plus whatever bonus he gets, and whatever the relocation ends up costing), Hanson will be a busy guy tomorrow when he counts his blessings… or at least his new compensation package.     Image source :  hildgrim  via flickr     Data source:  Morningstar Document Research    ——-      Here at footnoted, we’re thankful for our loyal readers. We work really hard on our site to bring you useful and interesting information, and we appreciate it when you send us feedback and news tips.  All of us here at footnoted wish you a lovely Thanksgiving tomorrow and hope that you get to spend the day with the people who are most important to you.  And thanks again for reading the site.                                                                                                    <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                          A few weeks ago, we  footnoted  the generous pay package that Robert “Bob” Pittman snagged by taking the chief executive’s job at CC Media Holdings (CCMO), the parent company of the Clear Channel broadcasting and advertising businesses. Pittman had been a muckety at the company formerly known as AOL Time Warner, and his new employer promised (among other perks) to “make an aircraft (which, to the extent available, will be a Dassault-Breguet Mystere Falcon 900) available to Mr. Pittman for his business and personal use,” at company expense.    Well, Clear Channel filed another  8-K  just after 4:30 p.m. Friday (toward the early end of the weekly Friday night dump) that suggests the deal is even sweeter than it first seemed. It looks like Pittman isn’t just getting free jet rides — he’s getting paid $3 million for the privilege of riding around in  his own  fancy jet.    See, it turns out that Pittman, as busy as he undoubtedly is, has enough time to run an aircraft leasing operation. A major customer (perhaps its only customer?) is Clear Channel Broadcasting, a wholly owned unit of Clear Channel Media Holdings. Given the terms laid out in the filing, of course, this aircraft-leasing business doesn’t seem too demanding: Clear Channel has agreed to pay $3 million up front, will “obtain insurance policies covering all operations of the Aircraft at CCB’s sole cost and expense,” and on top of that, is taking on       “all taxes or fees which may be assessed or levied as a result of the leasing or operation of the Aircraft … CCB will be responsible for all costs of operating and maintaining the Aircraft during the Term (as defined below), other than discretionary upgrades, capital improvements or refurbishment.  CCMH intends to make the Aircraft available to Mr. Pittman for his business and personal use pursuant to the terms of his previously disclosed employment agreement with CCMH.”       And there you go: The company promised to let him tool around in a corporate jet for both business and personal travel. And it will be his  own  fancy jet. And the company will pay him $3 million to lease the jet from him. So that he can fly around in it. (Got that?)    Clearly Pittman has an eye for irony, in addition to fine corporate aircraft and convoluted related-party transactions, because he dubbed his leasing company Yet Again Inc. We’re all for serial entrepreneurship, and we like cute names as much as the next person. But at a certain point, isn’t it just rubbing it in?    In a generous gesture, incidentally, Pittman has graciously agreed to return some of that $3 million if the arrangement should be canceled before its six-year term expires.    You can see the  FAA record  of Pittman’s plane, and more (including a photo of the jet itself) from  www.airport-data.com . Of course, the WSJ Jet Tracker lists  where it’s been , and how often, from 2007 through last year — we see nearly two-dozen trips to Telluride, and of course a bunch of pleasant, stylish and/or sunny locales, including Paris (seven times), Montego Bay in Jamaica (21 times), Las Vegas (13 times), and even a lone trip to the  Netherlands Antilles  (from Jamaica, in fact).    We should also note that, after we spotted the filing on Friday, we discovered that a couple of folks had also noticed the document. A tip of the hat to  Radio-Info.com , which credited the TRI newsletter in a post yesterday.    When Pittman talked to  DealBook  last month, he observed that he had been able to take the chairman’s job for a while before accepting the CEO position, and said: “This is one of those companies where the closer you looked, the better it seemed.”    From his perspective, anyway, there’s no arguing that point.     Image source :  Dassault Falcon website        ————     Over at   footnotedPro  subscribers our getting our best finds first. To find out more, please contact    Todd Serpico . footnotedPro: Interesting, Actionable, Profitable.                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      Since Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (MHS) and Express Scripts, Inc. (ESRX) announced their intentions this past June to combine forces in a  $29.1 billion merger , the top dogs at both companies have been busy  lobbying Congress  and officials at a host of federal agencies to convince them that the deal  won’t  violate antitrust laws and that it  will  be good for consumers. But the  merger proxy  that Medco filed on Friday convinced us of a different point: Its named executive officers will get multi-million-dollar payouts if the merger goes through and they subsequently lose their jobs.    The disclosures come in the “Golden Parachute Compensation” section of the filing, on page 182, just in case you didn’t make it that far. The numbers used are just an estimate, based on the hypothetical scenario that the merger had been approved, and that Medco’s named executive officers had been terminated on October 31, 2011.    Medco’s Chairman and CEO, David B. Snow, Jr., stands to gain more than $38.96 million if he is terminated within a year after the merger closes. Of that sum, $12.6 million would be paid as cash severance and more than $26.34 million for Snow’s equity interests.    Other top executives would also get nice payouts: President and Chief Operating Officer, Kenneth O. Klepper stands to get more than $15. 7 million; Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO, Richard J. Rubino, could receive nearly $10.33 million; General Counsel, Secretary and President, Global Pharmaceutical Strategies, Thomas M. Moriarty, could get more than $9.76 million; and Group President, Employer/Key Accounts, Timothy C. Wentworth, may receive more than $9.12 million.    But whereas Snow’s entitlement to the money (per his employment agreement) is conditioned upon the merger closing and him being terminated within a year, the other four executives’ rights come from the Change in Control Severance Plan; thus, they are protected if a qualifying termination occurs within  two years  following the Medco merger.    These numbers could “materially differ” from amounts that may actually be paid, but – based on the explanation in the merger proxy – it seems far more likely that the payout numbers would go up, not down:       “The amounts reported below are estimates based on multiple assumptions that may or may not actually occur, including assumptions described in this joint proxy statement/prospectus, and do not reflect certain compensation actions occurring before completion of the Medco merger (such as the grant of stock options and RSUs in respect of 2011 performance and payment of 2011 bonuses)….”       Express Scripts and Medco are independently holding special shareholders’ meetings at the same time on December 21, and it remains to be seen whether their shareholders will approve the deal. The filing also disclosed that both companies are currently working on their responses to the Federal Trade Commission’s Request for Additional Information and Documentary Material. After that, the DOJ, the FTC, state attorneys general, and possibly others could file suit to block or restrict the merger. But it seems clear that Medco’s top executives don’t have to worry about missing their mortgage payments if the merger goes through and they subsequently find themselves out of work.    Meanwhile, Medco employees continue to have questions about the deal, judging by  this 8-K  that the company filed late Friday. One of the first questions had to do with which executives plan to stick around post-deal. We thought the answer, which of course relates to the pay-outs, was worth including here:     “The complete and extended leadership team for the new organization is still under review and has not been decided. Medco’s senior executives remain committed to ensuring the merger is completed and that the transition positions the new entity for its continuing success.”     Suffice it to say that that sounds like a lot of fancy words to not really answer the question on whether the executives are staying or leaving.     Image source :  e-MagineArt.com      Data source:   Morningstar Document Research     ——-     Do you want help finding the most important disclosures in SEC filings? Then check out a subscription to  footnotedPro , where our reports enable serious investors to stay up-to-date with what’s going on before it’s reported widely. To find out more, please contact    Todd Serpico .                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      On Wednesday, Sonya  footnoted  the sudden departure of Automated Data Processing (ADP) Chief Executive Gary C. Butler, effective November 8. While the suddenness seemed a bit unusual to us, ADP  cast this  as part of a “succession plan previously established,” so we didn’t really question the timing. Today, we learned that he had been arrested on a criminal domestic-violence charge in the days before Butler stepped down.    We got the tip from a reader, who pointed us to a facsimile  booking report  posted on the website of the  Beaufort Tribune , a local newspaper in Beaufort County, South Carolina. We put in calls to ADP ( no response yet    see below  ), to the numbers we could find for Butler (also no response yet), and to the Beaufort County Sheriff’s office, which confirmed that the Butler who was arrested also worked for ADP. (The picture on the booking report certainly suggested as much, compared to  publicity shots  of the ADP executive, but we like to make sure.)      Update:    An ADP spokesman called back last night while I was flying back from Chicago, and we weren’t able to connect until this morning. This is the statement the company just sent a few minutes ago:       “On November 8, 2011, Gary Butler informed the ADP Board of Directors of his decision to retire from the Company and resign from the Board for personal reasons. The Board was aware of the circumstances surrounding his decision and immediately implemented its previously established succession plan, under which Carlos Rodriguez would become CEO upon Mr. Butler’s retirement. Out of respect for his privacy, ADP is not commenting further.”      Butler was arrested on November 6 at what appears to be a  second home  in Bluffton, South Carolina. (ADP is based in New Jersey, and we understand Butler listed a Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, address with police in South Carolina). We were told by the Sheriff’s office that Butler and his wife had argued earlier in the day, and then went out to dinner with friends. That night, after returning home, the argument resumed, according to the police report on file with the Sheriff’s office. “At some point Mr Butler grabbed [his wife] by the neck and by the wrist and pushed her against a bureau in the bedroom, and she fled the residence and called law enforcement,” Beaufort County Sheriff’s Office Sgt. Robin McIntosh told us, citing the police report. She said Butler’s wife didn’t need medical attention, but that officers found signs “of somebody having had their hands on her.”    The Sheriff’s office doesn’t have any record of prior incidents involving Butler. A hearing in  General Sessions Court  is scheduled for December 16.    The incident may explain the sudden series of events that led up to Butler’s departure. His resignation came on November 8, the day after he was booked; his resignation was announced the next day —  cast as a retirement  —  and his  separation agreement  was dated November 14 (but retroactive to November 8).    We’ll let you know if we learn more, or hear back from Butler or ADP.     Image source :  Forbes.com                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      We’ve joked before that when journalists see three of something, it’s a trend — and two is most of the way to three. So when we saw institutional brokerage and market-maker Knight Capital Group (KCG) hand a departing executive millions for the second time in 15 months, we looked a little more closely.    This time, the executive is Executive Vice President Gregory C. Voetsch. His departure (as of October 31) was  announced  November 1 as part of a broader reshuffling of the company’s various operations, and the press release describes him as having  ”voluntarily resigned his position to pursue other opportunities.” That’s one of the oldest business clichés in the book, of course, but sometimes even clichés can be true, after all.    Voetsch gets $4.1 million in cash to help him along with whatever those opportunities might be. He’s also getting $3.2 million more to cash out his unvested restricted stock, and company health insurance for 12 months. In return, he won’t compete with Knight Capital for six months and won’t try to poach employees for a year — and he’s promised to avoid badmouthing the company forever. The company can’t diss him in public either, but we were struck by just how specific the limitations are on Voetsch. The  agreement  itself spells out:       “You agree you shall not issue, authorize, or condone comments or statements to the press concerning Knight or any of its parents, affiliates, officers, or vectors other than to say ‘I cannot comment.’ You shall notify Knight’s General Counsel if you have been contacted by the press or broadcast media.       As regular readers might guess by now, this kind of payout doesn’t quite mesh with the proxy’s description of the severance Voetsch would ordinarily be eligible for under various scenarios. Termination “in a manner which would have made [him] eligible for severance” would have secured him a maximum of 26 weeks’ salary, or $125,000, had he been canned last December 31. Retirement would have accelerated the vesting of some of his restricted stock units, but only to the tune of $1.4 million as of the end of 2010. This is how the proxy wraps up the section that describes severance terms for Voetsch and others:       “Other than in respect of accelerated vesting of equity awards as described above, none of the Named Executive Officers are entitled to any compensation or benefits on a voluntary termination of employment, death, or disability that is different than the compensation and benefits provided to Company employees generally. “       Amusingly, as is so often the case, the agreement also includes detailed prohibitions on disclosing its terms — so specific that it creates a explicit exception allowing Voetsch to “discuss this Agreement and Release with your spouse … [and] your attorneys…”, among others. Never mind that the company would be filing the document with the Securities and Exchange Commission for all to see.    As we mentioned, Voetsch isn’t the first Knight executive to get big bucks on the way out. In August of last year, Sonya  footnoted  the departure of Gary Katcher, who had joined the company a couple years before with its acquisition of boutique bond brokerage Libertas Holdings. He got $4.6 million cash, and was also cashed out of 114,426 restricted shares — and Knight Capital promised to invest up to $12.5 million in a hedge-fund created by Katcher within two years.    Given that neither side is supposed to say much of anything, this filing is likely to be the last word we have on the subject, at least until the company’s next proxy comes out, detailing payments made to executives this year. Maybe then we’ll also find out what happened with the $12.5 million that Knight promised to invest with Katcher last August.     Image source :  wwarby  via Flickr     Data source:   Morningstar Document Research     ————     See more of what’s in the filings: Check out  footnotedPro , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at  pro@footnoted.com                                                                                                    <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      Tucking into the  8-K  that Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP) filed yesterday was a little like digging into a nice, tasty slice of pineapple upside- down cake. Why, you ask? Well – as with the cake – it turns out that some of the most interesting ingredients in the attachment to the regulatory filing were baked further down in the document, most notably, on page 6.    The attachment in question (Exhibit 10.1) is a November 14  Separation Agreement  that ADP gave to longtime president, CEO, and Director, Gary C. Butler, who  retired  on November 8 after a 37-year career with the company.    We had to read all the way down to 2.(q) to find out that ADP will pay Butler $1.55 million in January, 2012, as well as another $150,000 within 30 days of the agreement to compensate him for his FY 2012 bonus. (Based on our experience, it’s pretty unusual for a company not to summarize the terms in the body of the 8-K and then leave the details to the agreement)    Another goodie that Butler negotiated obligates ADP to provide the executive “with appropriate office and secretarial support until Butler’s 72nd birthday, which office will not, in any event, be located in an ADP facility.” Butler is 65 now, according to ADP’s press release, so this benefit could last for another 7 years. The company also agreed to transfer title to the leased company car that Butler has been driving. The company estimated the value of these benefits to be worth $622,200 in its September 27  proxy , which seems like some pretty swank office space.    And there are other interesting terms, as well. For example, all of Butler’s unvested stock options became vested on the day he resigned. According to the proxy, Butler’s vested and unvested stock options were worth nearly $6.9 million (that number assumes that unvested options had vested immediately and were exercised on June 30, 2011). This is a big deal, because had the accelerated vesting not occurred, Butler’s options would have vested in leisurely 20% increments over five years, starting a year after their grant date. The company also gave Butler the FY 2012 target grant amount of 65,000 shares of common stock under the Performance-Based Restricted Stock program. At yesterday’s closing price of $52.44, that could be worth more than $3.4 million.    In all, the proxy showed that if Butler had retired on June 30, 2011, he stood to collect nearly $29.86 million from his equity interests, Supplemental Retirement Plan, Deferred Compensation account, health coverage, and the perks (the office, assistant’s salary, and car). But as far as we can tell, the $1.7 million that the Separation Agreement promises to pay Butler is money in addition to the figure from the proxy. Think of them as a few extra cherries sprinkled on top of what he was already set to receive.    We know that Butler’s retirement was expected at some point, and ADP already had a succession plan in place. At the same time that Butler retired, the company promoted Chief Operating Officer Carlos A. Rodriguez to serve in the top executive post.    And we should point out that Butler’s tenure at ADP was profitable, a point that company Chairman Leslie Brun made in this Dow Jones Newswire  article  on November 9. Brun stated, “since he became CEO in 2006, revenues and profits have both increased significantly and the company is well positioned to continue its profitable growth.” With that being the case, perhaps shareholders won’t begrudge Butler a few extra bites on his way out the door.     Image source :  kimberlykv  via flickr    ——-     Do you want help finding the most important disclosures in SEC filings? Then check out a subscription to  footnotedPro , where our reports enable serious investors to stay up-to-date with what’s going on before it’s reported widely. To find out more, please contact    Todd Serpico .                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      They say it’s only a game, but for a bunch of publicly traded companies, basketball means business — and the lockout and labor turmoil in the National Basketball Association means bad news.    The NBA’s season is in shambles after a lockout by owners this summer dragged on and talks faltered;  NBA officials canceled games through November 30. Yesterday, the NBA players’ union  said it would disband , paving the way for an antitrust lawsuit against the owners — and raising the specter of a longer, messier fight.    Given the circumstances, some companies’ disclosures are no-brainers:  Madison Square Garden (MSG)  owns the NBA’s New York Knicks, and notes at one point in the  10-Q  it filed earlier this month that its NBA and National Hockey League teams together mean the company earns “a disproportionate share of its revenues” while those sports are in season. In a section on events after the end of the quarter, the company warns that failing to reschedule the games canceled so far would hurt the company’s fiscal second-quarter results, and that further cancelations “could have a material negative effect on our 2012 fiscal year results.”  Moreover, the impact of any new revenue-sharing agreement adopted by the NBA after an agreement is reached (assuming one is, of course), is bound to affect the company as well, for better or worse.     Time Warner (TWX)  says the lockout didn’t have a material impact on the most recent quarter’s results, and optimistically predicts that it “ does not expect it to have a material impact on the segment’s operating results for the remainder of the year.” Not that all’s necessarily well, as its  10-Q  goes on to warn:        “However, the longer-term impact of the NBA Lockout will be influenced by many factors including viewer ratings on TNT and advertising demand after the NBA Lockout ends. Because of the inherent uncertainties surrounding the NBA Lockout, the Company is unable to quantify the adverse impact that a prolonged NBA Lockout would have on the Networks segment s operating results.”       Others more peripheral to the off-court action (and all too soon, perhaps, the in-court legal action) tend to be less detailed in their warnings. Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD), the chicken-wing restaurant chain, simply warned in the  10-Q  that it filed on November 3 that “Our sales may be negatively affected by a disruption in the viewing of sporting events in our restaurants such as NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL due to strikes, lockouts, or labor disputes.”     Take Two Interactive (TTWO) , which sells sports-themed video games (and others), warned investors in a new risk-factor disclosure in its  10-Q  last week that “The lockout by NBA owners could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.” It continued:       “The NBA players union and the owners of the NBA teams are currently renegotiating their collective bargaining agreement, which expired following the 2010-2011 basketball season. Sales of 2K’s annually released basketball game could be adversely affected due to the players being locked out and the reduction in the number of games in, or cancellation of, the 2011-2012 basketball season.”       Some companies are less explicit about the potential for harm than others. Video-game maker  Electronic Arts (ERTS)  also has contracts with the NBA (presumably for its  NBA Jam  games). Yet when it filed its  10-Q  the same day as Take Two, it didn’t say anything about the lockout. Of course, size may make a difference here: Electronic Arts is more than six times as big as Take Two, by market-cap.    As with so many things tied to the basketball dispute, how big a deal it all turns out to be depends on how long things drag out. So grab a seat, grab a drink, and enjoy the action as best you can.     Image source : NBA  Facebook page                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      While none of the footnoted staff lives in Ohio, we suspect that it’s a lot like everywhere else: There are wonderful qualities and opportunities that make life  enjoyable , and there are also challenges to living there. But the prospect of moving from Atlanta to Ohio was too much for a second top executive at The Wendy’s Co. (WEN), prompting him to resign while leaving with several million dollars. (We wrote a  post  last May about Wendy’s first Ohio-related resignation.)    The departure of Roland Smith, the company’s President and CEO, was actually announced in a two-sentence section of an  8-K  filed September 2. The rest of the filing introduced Smith’s successor, Emil Brolick, and disclosed the terms of Brolick’s  employment agreement  and  deferred compensation plan  (the subject of this September  post ). What was clearly missing, though, was any explanation for Smith’s exit or a disclosure of what the company might pay him on his way out the door.    We now have the answers to those questions, thanks to the  10-Q  and attachments that Wendy’s filed with the SEC on November 9. You may recall that – until recently – Arby’s (headquartered in Atlanta) used to be part of Wendy’s. But once Arby’s was sold, Wendy’s didn’t need the Atlanta base. The company decreed that all of its top executives would be based in Dublin, Ohio.    Smith sent the company a couple of letters, including this September 1 letter attached as an  exhibit  to the 10-Q. After referring to his  December, 2008 employment agreement , Smith then explained that he didn’t want to move to Ohio, and that the company’s request that he do so breached a promise in his employment agreement (specifically, that the company wouldn’t “without your consent, [require you to relocate] to a work situs not in the Atlanta, Georgia greater metropolitan area”). Here’s a snippet from the exhibit:       “This letter agreement supplements my earlier letter agreement with the Company dated July 20, 2011 regarding the relocation of the Company’s headquarters and the occurrence of a “Triggering Event” under the terms of the Employment Letter Agreement. This letter agreement is being delivered in connection with the offer of employment made recently by the Company to a candidate to assume the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with such employment to commence on or about September 12, 2011.”       We can’t tell you what the July 20 letter says because it was never filed with the SEC. However, it’s clear that the company knew that Smith’s resignation was coming, since Brolick’s arrival and the announcement of Smith’s departure occurred simultaneously. And the 10-Q itself has a brief section at the bottom of page 26 which disclosed that:        “…in accordance with the termination provisions of [Smith's] related employment agreement, the Companies incurred termination costs of  $12,568   (principally for required payments of   $7,987   and vesting of previously issued stock awards of   $4,581  )    in the third quarter of 2011.”        Don’t be fooled, though: Those figures are “In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts,” so we’re really talking about millions here.    Although Smith officially ceased serving as the CEO and President on September 12, he is still working as a “Special Advisor” and director until December 30, 2011. Smith’s letter confirms his arrangement with Wendy’s: He would “provide advice and counsel as requested,” and the company would continue to pay him “at the same compensation level (including without limitation salary, bonus and employee benefits)”. The April, 2011  proxy  revealed that Smith’s base salary was $1.15 million, on top of which he received a bonus and equity awards that bumped his total compensation up to more than $4.91 million. Thus, he is set to earn quite a bit more before he and Wendy’s part ways at the end of the year.    But don’t despair, Ohioans. Despite the fact that some of Wendy’s executives don’t want to live in your state, we know that any place that inspired Leonard Bernstein and company to write “Ohio” (from the musical “ Wonderful Town” ) must be a very nice place indeed.     Image source :  bearclau  via flickr    ——-     Do you want help finding the most important disclosures in SEC filings? Then check out a subscription to  footnotedPro , where our reports enable serious investors to stay up-to-date with what’s going on before it’s reported widely. To find out more, please contact    Todd Serpico .                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                      For months now, we’ve kept thinking that we won’t be able to write about Qwest Communications for much longer. Indeed, back in March, shortly after the $12.2 billion deal with CenturyLink (CTL) was announced, we bid a  bittersweet adieu , after years of poking at Qwest both on the site and in my book,  Financial Fine Print .    And then CenturyLink has to go and ruin it by filing  this 10-Q  earlier this week. There on page 12, under the section “Acquisition of Qwest” was this tasty pearl:       We retrospectively adjusted our previously reported preliminary assignment of the aggregate Qwest consideration for changes to our original estimates of the fair value of certain items at the acquisition date. Identifiable intangible assets—other decreased $179 million due to a decreased tradename valuation and accounts receivable and other current assets increased by $88 million primarily due to a change in deferred income taxes and an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation settlement. Deferred credits and other liabilities increased by $40 million primarily from a change in deferred income taxes and a revision to our pension and post retirement asset valuation. Goodwill increased by $130 million as an offset to the above mentioned changes.       Making these sorts of adjustments post-acquisition isn’t really all that unusual. After all, it usually takes a few months to really get your hands around a situation post-acquisition. Still, adding $130 million in goodwill seems like more than a rounding error to us.    Indeed, if you poke around the filing a bit more, you see that CenturyTel’s goodwill on its balance sheet has blossomed from $8.7 billion at the end of last year to a whopping $19.2 billion, most of that directly tied to the acquisition of Qwest.    We’re sure hoping that this really is our last post on Qwest.     Image source :  Redhouse Developments      The SEC is closed today in observance of Veteran’s Day and the footnoted team is taking a well-deserved day off after sifting through over hundreds and hundreds of Qs in the past week. We continue to post our best finds over on     footnotedPro , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, contact  Todd Serpico .                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
                                                          We’ve observed before that the lawyers drafting Securities and Exchange Commission filings can be a little slow to adopt the latest trends, or adapt to the latest cultural developments — see our January  post  on Wikileaks in the filings, for example, or Michelle’s look at  “double-dip” fears  in September last year. So when something starts cropping up in the filings, you know it has truly arrived, at least on some level.    And so it is with  Occupy Wall Street , the quirky demonstration against corporate misdeeds, greed and inequality that has spawned  parallel protests  and spoofs across the country, as well as a bunch of smart, and not-so-smart, signs. (The funniest moment so far, as brought to us by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation: Occupy Whitehorse has become a “ virtual occupation ” with the onset of winter — propane doesn’t come cheap, after all.)    As far as we can tell, Occupy Wall Street made its SEC-filing debut yesterday, at least by name, in two separate filings. The first, in an  8-K  from Strategic Hotels &amp; Resorts (BEE) — a $943-million market-cap real-estate investment trust that concentrates on luxury hotels — landed on the SEC’s virtual desk a few minutes before noon. More on them in a moment.    The second instance came not two hours later, when CME Group (CME) filed its  10-Q . CME Group, of course, runs the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade and the New York Mercantile Exchange. So it’s not surprising that it would take a dim view of the protests in New York’s financial district and see itself as a potential target of any nefarious foes of the financial system.    In disclosing a new risk factor for investors to consider, the company warns that “Our role in the global marketplace may place us at greater risk for a cyber attack and other cyber security risks.” It continues:     “In connection with the continued economic uncertainty, groups such as Occupy Wall Street and Anonymous, have targeted the financial services industry as part of their protest against the perceived lax regulation of the financial sector and economic inequality.”     The filing then goes on to explain how  Anonymous  – the online organization perhaps best known for retaliating against businesses that cut off financial and other support for  Wikileaks  – “called on its supporters to launch a ‘distributed denial of service’ attack to overwhelm website traffic on NYSE Euronext’s external Web site,” succeeding in causing a “brief outage.” The disclosure concludes,     “While we have no evidence at this time that we are a specific target of a cyber attack, our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk.”     We’re not sure if CME really means to lump Occupy Wall Street together with Anonymous so indiscriminately, or if it’s a kind of rhetorical sleight of hand. For our part, we haven’t heard of any Occupy Wall Street-linked cyber-attacks — beyond suggestions that Anonymous members supporting the movement might try to hack the New York Stock Exchange — and to our eye the two groups seem pretty different, except perhaps for a penchant for pseudo-revolutionary sloganeering and a generally anti-corporatist attitude.    Strategic Hotels seems to have had a more practical and indirect reason for addressing Occupy Wall Street, and did so in response to an analyst’s question. In an accompanying  transcript   of the company’s quarterly results, Enrique Torres, an analyst with Green Street Advisors, asks:        “Laurence, if I look at the headlines, I see a lot of corporations having now to balance between some job cuts and then their budgets for rewards spending. In addition, you also see the Occupy Wall Street headlines. Combining these two elements, what do you think the perceived risk is of a revisit or return of the AIG effect on corporate luxury spending?”       You’ll recall that American International Group  (AIG) drew buckets of scorn from lawmakers after feting a hundred advisers at a luxury resort in California not long after securing a federal bailout. The backlash led other companies to  rein in  their own travel and entertainment efforts — at least for a little while; it looks like even  AIG is back at it , according to Bloomberg News.  Strategic Hotels’ chief executive, Laurence Geller, says he’s heard “no noise about it, no rumblings” either “politically” or “at the corporate level.” Companies are being a little more careful about appearances, but Geller suggests it’s not a problem:       “It’s got to do with prudence, given the headlines. So instead of a divisional president making his decision, it may need a signature from a group CFO or group COO, for example, but that has had no negative impact on it at all.”       In any case, the two filings mark a milestone of sorts, both for Occupy Wall Street and for the SEC.     Image source :  Tony the Misfit  via Flickr     Data source:   Morningstar Document Research     ————       Some warnings aren’t so innocuous. See more of what’s in the filings with  footnotedPro , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at  pro@footnoted.com .                                                                                                   <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                         <!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		Ad End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                              		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles Begin  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->  		   		   		     		  Designed for investors who want to dig into the details, but don't have the time.    		<!--//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////  		FootnotedPro Articles End  		///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////-->                                                                                                                                                              See more of what’s in the filings: Check out   FootnotedPro  , where we highlight unusual opportunities and potential problems well in advance of the market. For more information or to inquire about a trial subscription, email us at   pro@footnoted.com  .    		    		                                                                    
         Yep, that’s a month of hair and a week of beard growth. And the eyebrows are back! I’m thankful for two out of those three.    I’m a private guy by nature. Heck, my sense of humor is a textbook case of having developed as a shielding mechanism. But it feels silly now that I ever debated keeping quiet on my health situation.    I was already in the middle of treatment when I wrote that post. I remember hitting publish then flopping over onto the bed for a smooth 10 hour nap. The next time I loaded HIF, the  comment count had skyrocketed  into the hundreds and I was shocked. I actually didn’t read them. I didn’t even look at them. I was terrified there’d be a heavy dose of negatvity (I mean, we’re talking about anonymous Internet comments here!) and I was already having enough trouble smiling.    The worst period of all occurred a week later when a perfect storm of side effects culminated. For three straight days, my dog and I lied in bed staring at one another, trying to will the other into venturing out to find food. I finally mustered the energy to get out of bed, but the kitchen felt lightyears away, so I sat down in front of my computer and loaded the comments.    You punks had me crying within minutes.    And that was it. That was the lowest I ever got and everything from there was an improvement. It sounds corny, but knowing I had thousands of complete strangers out there rooting for me was encouraging in a way I’d never thought possible.     Suddenly I wasn’t fighting this damn thing alone! I knew my family and friends had my back, but I never expected in a million years that people I’d never met would care as well. Every corner of the globe seemed to have a vested interest in vanquishing my tumors. I got emails from Canada, India, Ireland, Australia, Japan, and countless others. HIF doesn’t even post freebies for those countries!    I wasn’t able to reply to everyone individually, but I read and appreciated each and every comment and email.    And I’m thrilled to say that  I’m now officially in remission .    I’ve said it before and I’m sure I’ll say it again, but thank you. Y’all were phenomenal to me throughout this and knowing that I didn’t  have  to post freebies every day was a giant load off my back for a few months.  So, again, thank you for the kind words and thoughts and prayers and love and every ounce of goodwill channeled in my direction! It made a huge difference and I’ll never forget it.     Now go find some turkey, enjoy the day with family and friends, and have a Happy Thanksgiving!     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  So About That Cancer… .                       
    If you’re still out shopping on Black Friday when the sun comes up, I think we all know what you need: Frozen sugar. That’s why you need to stop in for some  free Dippin’ Dots from 5 to 10 am . Just take in this printable coupon and you’ll be set for at least another few hours of running through the mall.     [ thanks to aggiegrad for sending this in! ]     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Dippin’ Dots on Black Friday .                       
         The image above for the  Country Buffer birthday freebie  makes it seem as if my name is Ryan Heyitsfree.net. How awesome would that be?     Signup Freebie : $3 off a regular adult dinner with the purchase of a beverage.    Birthday Freebie : $3 off a regular adult dinner with the purchase of a beverage.    Remember, we have a full list of  free birthday food !     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Country Buffet Birthday Freebie .                       
    Want  90 free Recyclebank points ? Sure, why not. Log into your account  then click “Earn Points” and look for “The Green Your Seasons Contest.” Follow the prompts and you’ll soon have your points. It’s as easy as eating cereal out of a bowl. At least that’s what I’m told. It’s always seemed too hard to me, so I eat it straight out of the box. I’ve got to be fast because milk does a number on cardboard!     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  90 Free Recyclebank Points .                       
    It’s been over three years since I last posted these  free Trojan condoms . Unfortunately something PG rated to say about them still eludes me.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Trojan Condoms .                       
     EDIT : These ran out pretty much right after I posted them.    Is it just me or has there been a lot of coffee samples lately? Case in point: this  free Cafe Escapes K-Cup coffee  offer on Facebook. I have almost six years worth of freebie data sitting here in a database, so I’m sure I could plot all the freebies on a chart and cross reference the coffee versus non-coffee offers to see if there was a recent spike. But frst I would have to learn how to do all that, so for now let’s just stick to anecdotal evidence!    The giveaway page is loading extremely slow, so you might have to try a few times.    [ thanks for sending this in Kristina! ]     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Cafe Escapes K-Cup Coffee .                       
         I think the faux wood is what makes the card above fantastic.     Tiny Prints  is giving away a  free birthday greeting card  today as long as you ship it to your house. If it’s sent anywhere else, you’ll have to pay $0.44 for postage. Use code  FREEBD  at checkout and you’ll be all set.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Birthday Greeting Card .                       
    I’ve been working out again.  Yup.  After all of my posts saying that I’m going to do it, I actually have been.  No, I don’t mean leaning over to pick up a donut box, but I figure turning on bad movies and sitting on our exercise bike is something, right?    So why would I turn off  Kull the Conqueror  and turn on one of these  free fitness DVDs ?  I don’t think I could turn off anything Kevin Zorbo is in.  Seriously.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Fitness DVD .                       
    A  few weeks ago , there was an offer for this  free THiNQ energy drink .  Now?  Looks like we can get it all over again.  And just in time for Black Friday too!  That midnight opening shift at work isn’t looking too bad now…     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free THiNQ Energy Drink .                       
    Once again, Target has a few samples for us. Yup, head over to their page for some  free Dove Nourishing Oil and Woolite Detergent .  So I guess I can treat my hair while I do my laundry.  It’d be like slumber party!  All I’d need would be  Dirty Dancing  and a bottle of chardonnay!     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Dove and Woolite Samples from Target .                       
         The  Brunswick Bowling birthday freebie  was one that I actually used last year. I know, it’s shocking that I wasn’t able to take advantage of all 100+ birthday freebies we have listed, but it’s true. The bowling was fun, especially the part where I scored a strike in the lane next to mine. I fruitlessly argued I should get a 50 point bonus for pulling off that feat, but my “friends” weren’t having any part of it.     Signup Freebie : Free BOGO game of bowling.    Birthday Freebie : Two free games of bowling.    Insert obligatory link to our  birthday freebies  list here.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Brunswick Bowling Birthday Freebie .                       
         If you’re looking for a way to entertain the little ones tomorrow, consider taking them to the  free Lowe’s Build & Grow Clinic  from 10-11am. They’ll be building a Santa Sleigh and if they still have energy after doing so, I suggest you tell them to run around outside and see if they can fly it like a kite. If they point out it’s made of wood, tell them it’s magic or something. That always worked on me until I was at least 15.     As usual, space is limited, so you need to register on-line beforehand!     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Lowe’s Build & Grow Clinic on 11/19 .                       
    Here’s a page to obtain a  3 sample packets of Sinus Rinse Extra Strength , which is a sinus rinsing something that does something for congested noses. If that ringing endorsement didn’t encourage you to sign up, how about this humdinger of a fact. “Some research shows that hypertonic (2.7%) or more concentrated solution may help reduce sinus congestion better than isotonic (0.9%) solution.” I have no idea what that means, but it sounds technical and therefor impressive. I’m easily persuaded by science.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free NeilMed Sinus Rinse Extra Strength .                       
    If you’re working on Black Friday and have a Facebook account, then Seattle’s Best wants to give you  free coffee . As for everybody else, we get a $2 coupon, which isn’t nearly as good as the freebie. You can’t even drink a coupon. I mean, you could try putting it in your coffeemaker, but I imagine it’d taste a little bland.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Seattle’s Best Coffee .                       
    After liking them on Facebook, you can get  free Nature’s Bounty fish oil  and a $2 coupon. I’m not really sure what to say about this. Can I go to bed now?     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Nature’s Bounty Fish Oil .                       
    I’ve never been a UFC fan, so I guess this  free UFC poster  isn’t aimed towards my demographic. I was even one of those rare guys who grew up in the 80s and never enjoyed wrestling. I didn’t understood the appeal of fake fighting when there were flesh and blood family members in the other room who you could body slam for real! To summarize, I’m eternally grateful my siblings still love me, let alone talk to me.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free UFC Poster .                       
    I couldn’t tell you how to properly pronounce this  free Episencial skincare  sample, let alone what it is. I’m guessing it’s a lotion. I really shouldn’t be trying to post freebies at midnight after a few refreshing adult beverages. I start signing up for a freebie and within minutes I’m checking the weather in Duluth, Minnesota or reading the Wikipedia entry for Rin Tin Tin. In other words, I get distrac … what was I saying again?     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Episencial Skincare .                       
         These  Huggies Enjoy the Ride Rewards  codes used to be so prevalent that I had a template to expedite posting them. Then they suddenly vanished. (Riveting history lesson on HIF, huh?) Encouraged by the results, I produced a template for “sorry I ran into your mailbox” emails yet those events kept occurring. I don’t get the universe sometimes.    The code is  CCTJZ-GPNNM-JBPGB  and will net you 5 points.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  5 Free Huggies Enjoy the Ride Points .                       
    There’s yet another  free Barista Prima Coffeehouse K-Cup  offer out, this time from …  Kohl’s ?! Aight, if you say so. I can honestly say I didn’t see that one coming.    The campaign code is  pywjrsmw .     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Free Barista Prima Coffeehouse K-Cups .                       
         Every time I post a Freebies Received entry, people comment asking where I get all my magazines. The first is at Recycle Bank, which is why I post those free codes from time to time. The other is from RewardsGold. In fact, they have  five free magazine subscriptions  currently available.        Free two year Bloomberg Businessweek magazine subscription      Free one year Maxim magazine subscription      Free one year Forbes magazine subscription      Free one year Playboy magazine subscription      Free 26 week Barron’s magazine subscription        So there ya go. Financial / business advice  and  scantily clad models. Just make sure you don’t confuse the two. I’d hate for you to invest your life savings in lingerie and Adobe Photoshop stock.     © Hey, It's Free!™ LLC. All rights reserved. Originally published for  Hey, It's Free!  as  Five Free Magazine Subscriptions .                       
    I have to hand it to my credit union.  Their marketing is pretty good!  They advertised an unsecured loan special, good through today, at rates starting at 7.5% for up to 12 months for amounts between $500 and $2,500.  It ends today presumably so that people can have the money in hand to shop Black Friday.  The term is no more than 12 months so that it’s a sure thing that it will be paid off before the holidays next year.     Everybody’s looking for business — even banks and credit unions     Black Friday, the quasi-official start of the holiday shopping season, has taken on a life of its own the past few years with door-buster deals, super-early openings, lines around the building, hot chocolate for diehards, “leaked” circulars weeks prior, and much more.  With the economy not really recovering with bells on, retailers are needing more than ever to capitalize on tradition.    The same is true for banks and credit unions.  Despite all of the bad press that banks have gotten for raising their fees, loans are their bread and butter.  And like retailers, they occasionally run promotions to encourage more business.  (The rate I got on  my used car loan  was a promotional rate, and it’s pretty hard to beat.)     Handle with care!     I’m not debt-free.  I do have an auto loan out there now.  Although I would have preferred to pay   cash for the vehicle, we do plan to retire this auto loan ahead of schedule, and the total interest paid won’t exceed 6% of the loan amount in any case.  (Like I said, it was a great loan.)  All in all, if we had to take out a loan, this was the best way to do it.    Borrowing money to spend on holiday presents is a bit different, though.  It’s  so  easy to overspend during the holidays, and it’s tough to find things that don’t depreciate heavily after you buy them (especially from retailers).  So the $2,500 is gone, and then it’s $217 per month for 12 months, and that lasts the whole year.  (A lot of the presents bought with that money have probably worn out their welcome by March at the latest — maybe New Year’s Eve?)    Everyone wants to sell you a bargain.  It’s certainly a good deal for the person selling you the bargain, especially this time of year.    It’s up to you to determine whether the bargain is a good deal for you.   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    A surprise calculation: Prosper.com vs. ING    Two ways to pay down a mortgage up front: Which is better?    An interesting fixed-rate mortgage    Has Black Friday jumped the shark?    We’re probably going to miss Black Friday       
    Fixed-rate mortgages are almost as cheap as the teaser rates on adjustable-rate mortgages of a few years ago.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed rate mortgage for today (November 15th, 2011) stands at 2.97%.  (Note: It was at the time I wrote this post.  Rates change all the time.)  Rates haven’t been this low in at least fifty years.  Some new car financing isn’t this low, and the terms on new car loans aren’t anywhere near 15 years.    Why are rates going further in the basement?  A few reasons:        It’s harder to find qualifying borrowers.   A lot of people are living  life after foreclosure  and just flat-out don’t qualify for a mortgage, let alone a mortgage at the best rates available.     Banks are lending less.   This is related to the search for qualifying borrowers, but from the supply side of the equation.  Banks on the whole are gun-shy after the bath that they took when housing crashed.     The economy is still below par.   Unemployment is still north of 9%.  It was under 5% four years ago.       Let’s say that I got a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage five years ago, when the rate was about 6.25%.  On a $150,000 loan, my payment would have been $923.58.  After five years I’d owe almost exactly $140,000.    If I refinanced the remaining $140,000 at a 15-year  fixed rate mortgage  of 3% — which is the going rate! —  my payment would go up only by $43 per month, and I’d shave a full ten years off of my mortgage.     I didn’t think rates would get still better from this year’s lows, but I was wrong.  If you haven’t refinanced in a while and your credit is sparkly-shiny, run some numbers and give it some serious thought.  These are crazy  low mortgage rates .   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    15-year fixed mortgage rates are below 4%    A 30-year fixed rate mortgage is protection money    Comparing fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages    Snapping ARM defeat out of the fixed-rate jaws of victory    When does it make sense to refinance your mortgage?       
    Our new (to us) car is now in our driveway.  Pretty much everything is settled with this vehicle, and we sold the old one that had the broken transmission.  We continued “ money lessons for kids ” with our daughter by showing her a few — OK, two dozen — $100 bills and a cashier’s check with a bunch of zeroes on it.    We had the opportunity to negotiate a couple of times during these transactions.  We got some of what we wanted in both cases.     Negotiation Opportunity #1:   We bought our new used car from Carmax.  Overall this was a great experience.  There was one little hiccup at the end: When we went out to pay off our financing with Carmax (which they allow within three business days without paying a dime in interest) neither one of us caught that I had to sign the cashier’s check.  (The big one, with a bunch of zeroes.)  We were halfway home when my wife got a call on her cell phone asking us to come back.  Going back would set us back an hour in driving time alone.  I suppose I should have caught that I needed to endorse the check, but I do this once every few years, and they do it dozens of times every day.    Anyway, I went back to the dealership, and when they brought the check back for me to sign, I asked:  “Any way I can get a voucher for an oil change?  This set us back 30 minutes of driving one way.”    A few minutes later, I walked out with a $25 gift certificate.     Negotiation Opportunity #2:   Our long-time mechanic bought our old car after we had it towed to his shop and after he gave the estimates to us to have the transmission fixed.  He likes the kind of van we have, except for the transmission.  He’s fixed up a few of them and uses them as loaners for customers.    He said that it would be well worth it to him to pay $500 for the van.  I’ve had “cash for your junk car” tow away other vehicles of ours for far less than that, so $500 wasn’t bad at all for a vehicle that needed about $3,000 worth of parts and labor to be roadworthy again.    My wife was the one who took the title over to him.  She asked if the offer could be more if he gave it in store credit.  (We have no reason to look elsewhere, as we’re quite happy with his service.)    He bought the van for $750 in store credit — 50% more than he offered in cash.     Store credit is cheap for the store     The connection between these two wins is that we made it clear that store credit was just fine with us.  I don’t think that I would have gotten cash back from Carmax for my trouble had I asked for it, and I know that we would have gotten less for the van in cash.    There are at least three reasons why this make sense:        The money is locked up in the business.   The business owner keeps their money for now and pays in future goods and services.  There’s a small risk that the business could go under and the money would go with it.  But if there’s a good relationship and both parties will continue to do business together, then great.     Store credit is cheaper for the business than an equivalent amount of cash.   It’s not going to cost Carmax $25 to give me $25 worth of service.  It’s not going to cost our mechanic $750 to give us $750 worth of services.  If it does, then they’re working for nothing.  This is the same reason why restaurants love giving out soda: “Buy two hamburgers and get a medium drink for free.”  The drink costs them about a nickel, but the value to the customer is $1.19.     You’re on their side with the transaction.    Indirectly you’re saying “I want to continue doing business with you” when you suggest compensation in store credit.  It gives the business that warm, fuzzy feeling.        Any other opportunities you’ve had to barter in store credit or something similar?  Did you get more than you thought?    Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    How to cash in on Food Lion’s stimulus deal without a check    A surefire way to get your kids asking you questions about money    A slick ATM trick    Six great ways to slam the door on your customers    Does taking it to the top do any good?       
    (And no, the answer is  not  to give $50/week allowance to a six year old!)    Last week our minivan’s transmission bit the dust.  (Thankfully it bit the dust in our driveway.)  Over the next couple of days my wife and I discussed what to do: whether to fix our car, whether to buy a new-to-us one — buying a new car didn’t enter the picture! — which kind to buy, and how to pay for it.    We had a very level-headed discussion about the whole matter.  I’m glad that  we’ve learned a thing or two  now that we’re approaching our tenth anniversary.  At some points in the discussion, when it was getting serious and when we were trying to make sure that we understood each other, our daughter came in to ask this or that, and at first we asked her to let us finish the discussion privately.    After we got through that part of the conversation, we called her in to let her know that nothing was wrong and that we needed to think carefully about what to do because it was a lot of money.    At some point, either my wife or I made the observation that this topic really wasn’t over her head, or something that we needed to shield her from.  We really didn’t have to discuss the financial questions of getting a car privately.     So after that point, we involved our daughter in buying the car.   My wife took her to CarMax and she got to ride in the cars, and tell her which one she liked better and why.  But probably the more important part was that she learned that we were going to borrow money to get the car.  We explained that we were going to ask our credit union to lend us money to buy the car, and that we had to pay it back or else they’d be able to take the car, because we didn’t really own the car until the loan was paid back.    Then tonight my daughter asked me, “Daddy, why are you getting a loan for the car?”  Music to my ears — not necessarily  because  we’re borrowing, but because this is the most advanced money question my daughter has asked about to date.  I got to explain some things about investments to her.  I explained that we could sell some of our investments to pay for the car, but at this time we didn’t want to.  I got to explain the concept of interest to her, and that it wasn’t free to borrow money.  I also got to explain the concept of creditworthiness to her; because Mommy and Daddy pay their bills on time, the bank didn’t charge us much interest on the loan.  (We got approved for a  very  good rate on our used car loan.)    It was great to see her asking questions about personal finance.   I think the trick was not to hide the family’s personal finance from her.    Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Tithing without getting an allowance?    Getting better deals by giving business    My daughter groks negotiation … kinda    My daughter can earn 1% on her money for a while    Tie allowance to chores or not?       
    The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), with the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) (“Freddie Mac”),  today announced  a number of changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) designed to increase the number of borrowers eligible for refinancing at-risk home mortgages.    One of the big deals of this new initiative is the removal of the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) cap on eligible fixed-rate mortgages. Now, mortgages that qualify for refinancing under the HARP have loan-to-value ratios of 80% to, well, as high as you’ve gotten yourself into.    It surprised me a little that 125% LTV wasn’t enough, but after doing some math, I can see how LTV of 200% or more are not out of the question.  In Miami, for example, inflation-adjusted home prices  dropped 50%  from 2007 to the end of last year.  If someone took out a  fixed-rate mortgage  for most of the purchase price, then the loan-to-value would be in the neighborhood of 175% today if the borrower made regular payments against the mortgage.    Unlike the first- and long-time homeowner’s  tax credit , this initiative is almost completely for homeowners in over their heads.  The  minimum  LTV ratio is 80%.  That’s not underwater but it’s still fairly high leverage.  The expanded HARP blanket is also targeted at people who are still making their payments; to qualify, there must have been no late payments in the past six months, and no more than one during the past year.     Is this HARP initiative throwing good money after bad?     This all makes for good press but guaranteeing loans this far underwater at attractive fixed rates isn’t the kind of move the finance industry would make on its own.  Under normal circumstances, lenders like (a) to be paid back, and like (b) to get interest that’s commensurate with the risk they’re taking with lending the money.  Take away the risk of being paid back, and strange things happen, like really low interest rates for highly-undercollateralized loans.    That’s the lender’s side.  But what about the borrower’s side?  Is it throwing good money after bad to take “The Enterprises” up on this offer?  If the refinance actually does make things more affordable, yes.  Pay the sucker down faster now that the payment’s lower, or build up an emergency fund.  Take advantage of it.  The subsidy is there.  It won’t be there forever.    The economy would recover faster if the institutions and people exhibiting indiscretion were allowed to fail good and hard, but that’s not the way we’re doing it.  Look into the new HARP initiative if you think you could benefit.    (And even if you’re not underwater, if you haven’t refinanced for a while, you might be pleasantly surprised with the  current mortgage rates! )   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Comparing fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages    15-year fixed mortgage rates are below 3%    When does it make sense to refinance your mortgage?    15-year fixed mortgage rates are below 4%    Debt reduction when you’re upside down       
    The Alexa Toolbar has some interesting headlines come across it.  It draws on Reddit fairly often.  The submitter for  this article  now has about 1600 net votes from describing their experience calling up a representative at a bank to contest their new monthly service fee.    It’s clear that the representative could use some education in the making friends and influencing people department, but what is also revealed is a shocking dose of candid insight:      … The rep said it wasn’t the bank’s fault, and blamed the government. She said the federal government capped overdraft fees, and so they just “had” to raise these fees to “cover their losses”  ….      Price controls make everyone worse off in the long run.   Capping overdraft fees is a form of price control: the price a bank can charge a customer for the privilege of spending more than they’re allowed to in their account.  The government got involved as the result of backlash from something or other — people  ask  or even  beg  the government to get involved in matters! — and the profitable “frequent fliers” of the bank customer pool aren’t quite so profitable anymore.  So, the bank needs to find ways to make other customers profitable, such as the responsible ones who spend within the confines of their balance.    Prices like to move freely so they can arrive at the price that’s best for everyone.  With controls the price must settle somewhere outside of optimal, and other prices must adjust around the controlled price.  Like $3 or $5 monthly fees where there were none before.  Overall, there’s not much that we can do about it.  We can vote with our feet like the Reddit poster did, but even though he made the point that some other banks and credit unions haven’t upped their fees yet, I tend to side with the bank rep:      … The rep got a little anxious, too, when my wife asked about the procedure for closing our account, and actually started arguing with my wife, saying that it was pointless to move our money because “other banks and even the credit unions are going to do it too!”  ….     Whether the additional cost comes in the form of a monthly fee or something else, the cost will show up.  The overdraft income was gone with the stroke of a pen (and a whole bunch of yea votes).  Now we all adjust.   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Was mandatory overdraft privilege such a bad thing?    Frequent flier, minus the airplane    OK, this one isn’t quite so vexing    Do this and you’ll manage your checking account successfully    Debit, schmebit!       
    You may have heard of cash-for-gold businesses — turn your gold into cash.  The procedure for getting cash for your gold at these kinds of places goes like this:       Request an envelope.    Drop your gold jewelry in the envelope and mail it to them.    They send you a check.       Easy peasy, right? It is. The catch is that some of these places really give you almost nothing compared to  what your gold jewelry is worth .  Of ten sites listed on one comparison site, the top one paid almost eight times the bottom one for the same gold necklace.  The top site, ExpressGoldCash.com, currently pays $26.43 for 14kt gold, per pennyweight.  (This is the payout for the lowest quantity tier, which is zero to five ounces.  If you send in more than that, they pay more per DWT.)    The real question is this, though:  How does it compare to gold spot price?  One pennyweight of 14kt gold is about 0.02917 troy ounces, so ExpressGoldCash is paying out just north of $900 per troy ounce.  Spot price is $1,626 per ounce, so they’re paying out more than half of spot for the gold.    All in all, that’s pretty darn good, considering what they have to do to recoup their purchase.  They have to handle the business costs of shipping the goods, paying you, and insuring your jewelry in transit.  Then they have to test your item to see that the purity is as advertised.  Then they have to melt the stuff and get it into a form that can be sold (usually a three-nines bar).    Here’s another reason I know it’s a good price.   They advertise what they pay prominently on their site.   They know they pay out a lot for the gold, so it’s a selling point.  As I went down the list on the comparison site I visited, the top three listed their current payouts.  (On the third one a little more digging was necessary to get the price, but it was there.)  The other sites did not advertise their prices.  The sites that pay out less don’t want you to know how little they pay out until they have your items in hand.    So the takeaway is if you’re going to use a cash for gold place on the web, then make sure at least that they advertise what they will pay you right on the site.  You shouldn’t be finding out at the time you get your check.        Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Value of a gold-filled jewelry: A reader’s question    How much is that gold jewelry worth?    So what about Italian gold?    Melt value    Do mail-order gold places even know what they’re doing?       
    Our church has been doing a study on money in the adult Sunday school classes through a video series from Crown Ministries.    Today’s lesson talked about racking up lots of credit card debt and expecting others to take care of you. (Oh wait … sorry … that was the pamphlet I saw for FROWN Ministries.) But seriously    today’s lesson discussed saving and investing, compound interest … all of that good stuff.    One of the key ideas associated with compound interest is that it’s magic. I guess most people that talk about compound interest assume that the people listening think that math is boring, and that’s probably true. But the key ingredient to make the magic work is time. Decades worth of time, usually.    The lesson not only drove home that regular investment a good thing, but at the time it also seemed to suggest that wanting to do it any way but slowly and methodically was not a good thing. Enter Proverbs 28:20:      A faithful man will be richly blessed, but one eager to get rich will not go unpunished. (Proverbs 28:20, NIV)      This statement concerned me a little because (a) I do often think about different ways to make money that are faster than compounding interest, and (b) I want to enjoy the fruits before they have to be put through a food processor and spoon-fed to me. I’m reading through MJ DeMarco’s   The Millionaire Fastlane   and he refers to this slow, systematic retirement plan as, well, the “slow lane.” Does the desire to kick things into high gear make me “eager to get rich” as stated in Proverbs 28:20?     It’s a matter of balance and honesty     John Gill, an English theologian in the late-17th, early 18th-century, had this to say about the phrase:      … but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent; he that is over anxious, and immoderately desirous of being rich, and pursues every method of obtaining his desires, with all his might and main; that labours night and day for it; though he takes no criminal nor unlawful methods, properly so called, nor does he do anything injurious to others, yet he is not innocent; that too much anxiety in him is criminal; nor is he free from covetousness; and if he uses any unjust and unlawful means to acquire wealth, and resolves to be rich, right or wrong … he shall not be innocent, neither before God nor men ….  ( reference )      There are many godly rich men mentioned in the Bible: Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, Solomon, Barnabus, and Job, to name a few. So, it’s not ungodly to be rich. Nor is it ungodly to become rich at a young age, if the person’s heart is in the right place. Being hell-bent on becoming rich, though, is the problem, and this is the notion that is connected with the word “eager.” It’s not the desire to be smart about making money to bring it in faster that’s bad. It’s both the manner in which it’s done, and also whether more important things are sacrificed in the process.    So the takeaway for me is that wanting to get rich on an accelerated schedule isn’t necessarily “being eager to get rich,” but it can be, and I have to ask continually for wisdom as to whether I’m following the good path or one of the many bad ones.   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Top ten failed personal finance book titles    Review of Living the Savvy Life by Melissa Tosetti and Kevin Gibbons    Link roundup: Upstate NY edition    The MBN welcomes Get Rich Slowly and No Credit Needed    $12 million might not be enough to retire       
    Luke “Flexo” Landes of  Consumerism Commentary  has a guest post over at Wealth Pilgrim on  whether the government should  have a ban on reward credit cards. The post had the flavor of a thought experiment, and I’m not aware of any talk to implement this.    Nonetheless, the thought of that idea sends a cold chill down my spine, not just because I like my perks — I do — but because the groups that might be calling for the change will be shooting themselves in the foot.  Getting the powers that be to “keep you from getting yourself into trouble” or to “protect you from that bully” , play big brother, or to keep that bully from picking on you is counterproductive, because the energy expended at complying with the powers that be are non-productive.  It’s a burden to everyone, and  it hurts just about everyone.     The beauty of credit cards, if you have good credit, is that you can basically choose what terms you want and what perks you want. It’s a bit like ringtones. I have as my weapon of choice the I have the  Chase Sapphire®  card. Every once in a while, I get enough points that I can cancel a charge from my bill. I like that! Other people have airline cards, or Starbucks cards, or whatever. Why the heck not?  Whatever floats their float!     If merchants push for this, they’ll get bitten too     Supposedly the reward cards carry higher interchange fees than non-reward cards, and this directly hits the merchants’ bottom line.   So banning these cards will help the merchants, right?  Wrong.  When the merchant account providers are restricted in what they can do to make money, they’re not just going to sit there.  They’re going to make it up some other way.  Consider that merchant account providers  can no longer demand  that merchants accept all credit card transactions, regardless of amount.  Some merchants will set minimum charge amounts, and the issuers won’t see that interchange income.  If we ignore the fact that the merchant is probably going to lose customers, then the issuers will bump up their prices, charge extra fees, etc., to make up the new shortfall.    It’s the same thing with getting rid of reward cards.  Once the financial advantage of carrying a reward card goes away, then a number of things can happen.  First, the additional income that the issuers got from the reward cards will be made up somehow.  Second, the people who were using the card will use them less now that the fun has been taken away.  Less money flying around means less money for the merchants.  Third, it’s one more measure of oversight that is a non-productive drag on the economy.  The short-term gain in interchange fee expense will be handed back, and then some.    If there’s a ban on reward credit cards, what about low-interest cards?  High-risk (high-rate) credit cards?    What about credit cards in general?   That’s the danger of banning any kind of credit card.  It’s a step toward banning more.   It’s the erosion of choice.    Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Credit cards are not liquid evil    Wading through gas credit card offers    Uh-huh: Anti-credit-card legislation hurts just about everyone    A credit card for debt reduction    Bargain hunting miles and points with credit cards       
    I met Mike Piper of  The Oblivious Investor  briefly at  FinCon11  and he came bearing gifts.  (I guess I was The Oblivious Conference Attendee and did no such thing myself.)  I snagged two copies of his newest book,   Can I Retire?    (I’ll offer the second copy to a randomly-picked subscriber of my newsletter soon, so if you’re interested,  sign up !)     Can I Retire?  is part of his “100 Pages or Less” series, and, well, the main text of the book ends squarely on page 99, so it’s truth in advertising.  His motivation in putting this series together was to give essential information on a particular topic in a size that wouldn’t be so daunting to read.  He fully admits that his book is just the beginning of answering the question in the title, so with that in mind, I read the book.    I enjoyed it.  The book was well written and free of financial jargon, but at the same time I didn’t feel like I was in third grade while reading it.  It was a quick read; I got through it in maybe 1 1/2 hours, and part of the time I was riding up to a friend’s house.  Which, again, is the point of the book:  It’s an approachable and doable introduction to the topic.     Standard topics with some essential details     The topics are nothing terribly mind-blowing:       Calculating how much you’ll need to retire    The 4% withdrawal rate rule    Single-premium immediate annuities    Index funds, exchange-traded funds, bonds    IRAs and IRA accounts    Tax consequences of conversions, rollovers, and the like    Social Security       I picked up a number of things along the way.  Here are a couple of them:        Dollar-cost averaging is a two-edged sword.   In a rising market, dollar cost averaging helps to automate the process of buying low (to sell high later).  But in a falling (or fallen) market, withdrawing a fixed amount has the opposite effect: selling low.     The overview of annuities is very good.   I knew vaguely what annuities were but Chapter 4 laid the basics out very well, especially the pros and cons of annuities, fixed return vs. variable return annuities, and diversifying annuities.     Having a tiered risk/reward investment structure in retirement is a good idea.   The idea and explanation of having short-, mid-, and long-term investments in retirement was clearly presented.  (Long-term in retirement is more than five years out.)       All in all, this was a well-organized introduction to answering the question of   Can I Retire?   and I recommend it.  The Kindle edition is certainly worth $5 if you’re new to retirement planning.   Sign up for the  Mighty Bargain Hunter Newsletter!      Related Posts:    Here’s the skinny on The Skinny On    Review of Questions and Answers on Life Insurance    Review of Bill Schultheis’ The New Coffeehouse Investor    What is financial retirement?    A retirement attitude adjustment?       
   Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank in Denmark has a few thoughts via email I would like to share.      Steen writes ...    The German “near miss” failed auction yesterday has set off several new developments and pressures – This is a major thing clearly, and some media even speculate it could change the mighty Bundesbanks’ perception of reality.      Close to home, Germany now trades ABOVE Denmark on 10 year government debt by 10 basis points!  However, there is reason to believe this more a function of the illiquid markets than an endorsement of the Danish economy, where the fiscal imbalances continues to expand negatively (Unlike Sweden!)       Spread difference 10 year Denmark minus 10 year Germany                It has also increased the pressure from France to get the ECB more involved – I fail to see link between the German auction and this, but never the less the French political machine is always firmly behind the concept of “ Dirigism ” and in today’s meeting between Merkel, Sarkozy and Monti the topic surely will be touched again.      It’s important in historic context to remember that the only true role a central has is to … print money – why else have it?      I remain committed to my Chapter 11 concept as one of the few ways to break this deadlock.      Safe travels,      Steen For a discussion of the "Chapter 11" concept, please see  Perfect Storm the Most Likely Scenario; Is Europe Set to Declare a Chapter 11 in Early 2012?       Steen is correct regarding the only true role of central banks. It is precisely why they they should be eliminated. Far from being "inflation fighters" they are the very source of inflation.      More correctly: Fractional Reserve Lending and Central Bank Printing do not "cause" inflation, they "are" inflation.      Deflation is the destruction of credit and debt from the preceding boom.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   I remain in "awe" of the amazing arrogance of politicians and news writers who simply cannot take "no" for answer no matter how many times it is spelled out. The horrendous "eurobond" idea simply will not go away, even though Merkel and the German supreme court buried it long ago.      Even if Merkel was willing to give in on the idea, Finland and Austria wouldn't, and more importantly neither would the German supreme court.      Yet people keep wasting time debating the merits of it. It's like debating the merits of perpetual motion. No matter what the merits might be, perpetual motion is not going to happen, so there is no point in debating it.       Run on the Eurozone has Started       Eurointelligence proclaims  Run on the Eurozone has Started     Jose Manuel Barroso warned yesterday the euro would be “difficult or impossible” to sustain without further economic integration. German newspapers this morning produced a whole string of poisonous comments about the European Commission’s proposals for Eurobonds. The eurozone is now in a position where crisis resolution requires a much firmer political commitment than member states had expected to provide.       German could accept Eurobonds under certain conditions           Taken at face value the German opposition against Eurobonds seems to  be as strong as ever and most German papers such as Süddeutsche Zeitung  and Handelsblatt report on the topic in these terms. Nevertheless, the  resistance against the Commission is less categorical than it appears,  Financial Times Deutschland   writes. Angela Merkel did not rule out Eurobonds but rather said the  timing of José Manuel Barroso’s proposal was “inappropriate”. Among the  condition she enumerated were changes of the EU treaties and a much  stronger commitment of member states to condolidate. Norbert Barthle,  the budgetary spokesperson of Merkel’s CDU/CSU parliamentary group, told  FTD: “We never say never. All we say is: no Eurobonds under current  conditions”. As a result there is scope for a deal at the EU summit  December 9. The idea is preposterous. There is no scope for a deal and no time for a deal even if there was scope. Moreover, and even if there was scope and time, it would require a German referendum and treaty changes by all 17 Eurozone countries.      Facts do not stop politicians or writers.        Hitler Enters the Equation        Writer Mark Schieritz in  Nazi Adolf, inflation and the euro crisis  blames the rise of Hitler on the gold standard and deflation.     The  hyperinflation of the twenties led to so that the Weimar Republic was  entirely prescribed a hard currency strategy - regardless of losses.  Others were wiser because:       After  leaving the gold standard, the UK saw its unemployment rate decline by  about a third from 1931 to 1933, while Germany's rose over the same  period Significantly.   If  Germany had been willing to follow the UK in inflating, and its  unemployment rate had followed a similar trajectory, it would have stood  at 17% rather than 33%.       In other words, perhaps the greatest catastrophe in human history could  have been prevented if the Germans had allowed a little more inflation.      The euro in its present form is in many ways comparable to the gold standard.  The cause of the great depression was the runup in credit that preceded it. Blaming gold for the rise of Hitler or for the great depression is preposterous. Begging for inflation is equally preposterous.      Economies go through these massive boom-bust cycles because of inflation, fractional reserve lending, and rampant credit expansion. The cure cannot be the same as the disease no matter how one tries to distort the facts with untenable correlations.      Central banks, governments, fiat currencies, and fractional reserve lending are responsible for every major economic bust in history and fools come back begging for more.       Enough! Eurobonds are not going to happen (nor should they happen).      For a detailed discussion of why Eurobonds and ECB printing are piss poor ideas,  please see  Understanding the Problem, Understanding the Solution, and Understanding Who is to Blame are Three Different Things .      I wrote that last evening but failed to post it. At the time US futures were up over 1%. Now I see they were flat. The reason? I presume this:       Merkel Reiterates the Obvious       Bloomberg reports  European Stocks, Euro Fall on Merkel Comments     The euro weakened, Italian bonds declined and the cost of insuring European government against default rose to a record after German Chancellor Angela Merkel ruled out joint euro-area borrowing. European stocks fluctuated.       Euro bonds are “not needed and not appropriate,” Merkel said at a press conference with Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti and French President Nicolas Sarkozy in Strasbourg, France.      “The market sees a ‘no’ and reacts to it,” said Martin Huefner, chief economist at Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which manages more than $4.7 billion of client assets. “We’re going to see a deterioration of equity markets in the coming months to the point where something will have to be done. The market would be euphoric to get euro bonds. Apparently the pressure is not big enough yet.”   No Hope or Future for Eurobonds       Huefner has it backwards. The market hears "yes" and reacts to it, even when it is damn obvious the answer is no.      There is no hope or future for Eurobonds and there never was.       No matter how many times this is explained or reiterated, some eurocratic fool or some fool writer finds some lame excuse to attempt to revive the dead. The latest (yesterday) was preposterous analysis by the Financial Times suggesting Merkel did not "really" mean no. This was followed up with the ludicrous idea by Mark Schieritz who blamed gold and  lack of inflation  for the rise of Hitler.      Sheeesh.       Now that Eurobonds are finally dead (hopefully), can we please start a rational discussion as to how best to break up the Eurozone?       Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Ambrose Evans-Pritchard is back on track with  Ireland demands debt relief, warns on EU treaties  The Irish government has suddenly complicated the picture by requesting debt relief from as a reward for upholding the integrity of the EU financial system after the Lehman crisis, though there is no explicit linkage between the two issues.      "We carried an undue burden for protecting the European banking system from contagion," said finance minister Michael Noonan.      "We are looking at ways to reduce the debt. We would like to see our European colleagues address this in a positive manner. Wherever there is a reckless borrower, there is also a reckless lender," he said, alluding to German, French, British and Dutch banks.      Mr Noonan hinted that Dublin is asking for some of interested relief on a €31bn EU promissory noted linked to the Anglo Irish fiasco, among other matters.      Mr Noonan said Ireland's public mood has turned very sour.       "We have indicated to Europe's authorities that it will be difficult to get the Irish public to pass a referendum on treaty change," he said.       Mr Noonan said the country will stay the course with unbending austerity, even though nominal gross national product (GNP) has already contracted by 22pc. Public wages have fallen 12pc on average under Ireland's "internal devaluation" policy to regain competitiveness within EMU. There are likely to be further wage cuts in the December budget.      "We have to face reality. There is no painless way, no soft option: we're going to cut spending drastically, but with social cohesion. We don't want situation we see in Greece with people on streets and the foundations of state under threat. We're not going that route."   Will, Not May       Pritchard summed up the entire situation quite nicely in his opening lead " Europe's plans for treaty changes to enforce fiscal discipline in the eurozone  may  fall foul of popular anger in Ireland unless the EU creditor states agree to share more of the pain. "      My one quibble is with the word "may". The correct word is will.      I am quite disappointed that it took Ireland this long. Voters smashed the Fianna Fail (FF) party to smithereens in February (see  Massive Rout in Irish Elections; Collision Course with the EU; Default the Best Option for Ireland ), to teary-eyed outgoing politicians, only to see incoming party Fine Gael, led by incoming prime minister Enda Kenny, do the exact same thing FF would have done: bail out German and French banks at the expense of Irish taxpayers.      Quite frankly this is maddening. What the hell good are elections if the only choice by either party is to bail out the banks? Worse yet, in Ireland's situation, it is foreign banks that are bailed out.       Enda Kenny "Pleads" for Help        Actually, Kenny did not "demand" debt relief, he begged for it. Moreover he is willing to kiss ass to get it.      The Wall Street Journal reports  Irish PM Kenny: Must Meet Targets To Win Back Economic Sovereignty     Ireland will have to meet the austerity budget targets set by its bailout lenders if the country is to get its economic sovereignty back, Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny said Tuesday.      He told the Irish parliament that looming budget measures will be as fair as possible to balance the requirements of its European Union and International Monetary Fund lenders while protecting the most vulnerable in Irish society.      "Clearly, if we are to have our economic sovereignty back we can't go on as we were," Kenny said.  If Kenny had any backbone at all he would have told the IMF and EU to "go to hell" just as Icelandic voters did and more importantly, just as Irish voters expected. Instead, Kenny wimped-out to the exact same demands from the IMF and EU that Fianna Fail would have done.       Public Mood Turns Sour        Mr Noonan, Ireland's finance minister said "Ireland's public mood has turned very sour".      Of course it has. Wimps like Kenny and Noonan have caved into every EU and IMF demand, at the expense of Irish taxpayers, in spite of an overwhelming election to do something different!      I repeat what I said earlier today in  Eventually, Will Come a Time When ....        Eventually, there will come a time when a populist office-seeker will  stand before the voters, hold up a copy of the EU treaty and (correctly)  declare all the "bail out" debt foisted on their country to be null and  void. That person will be elected.       Kenny did not do what he was elected to do. He should be kicked out of office on his ass and replaced by someone who will.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Inquiring minds note that French presidential candidate  Le Pen calls for France to quit euro     Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’s far-right National Front, has made abandoning the euro one of the pillars of her presidential election campaign, launching a powerful attack on the ailing single currency as she seeks to bolster her already strong showing in the opinion polls.      Presenting her “presidential project”, Ms Le Pen said Europe should give up the euro, which had “asphyxiated our economies, killed our industries and choked our jobs” for years, as well as causing France to accumulate “Himalayan” debts. In any case, she added, the country should prepare a planned exit from the currency union. “We need to anticipate the collapse of the euro rather than suffer from the collapse of the euro,” she said in a television interview on Sunday. Le Pen supports misguided policies on trade and numerous other issues. However, protectionists and isolationists will eventually win the way, on one issue and one issue alone.      Last April, in Finland, the "True Finn" party soared from obscurity based on one simple idea:  stopping bailouts of euro-zone member states . The rest of the "True Finn" platform was cancerous, yet meaningless. Voters everywhere are fed up with bailouts.       My Point       Eventually, there will come a time when a populist office-seeker will stand before the voters, hold up a copy of the EU treaty and (correctly) declare all the "bail out" debt foisted on their country to be null and void. That person will be elected.      Le Pen may be too early, and France may not be that country, but the time will come.      Greece, Finland, Germany, Belgium, and even France are possibilities. All it will take, is for one charismatic person, timing social mood correctly, to say precisely one right thing at exactly the right time. It will happen.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   No doubt emergency meets are underway in numerous countries right now following a failed German bond auction. Bond auctions have failed before, but not in Germany (at least by this much), and never at a worse time.                           Link if above video does not play:  German Bond Auction Disaster        Key Ideas Expressed in Video       "What people are saying is Germany is going to have to pay the bill. ... Just possibly, today is the day people may have decided German bonds are not the safe haven they thought they were. ... It's all about confidence isn't it?"      It's actually about solvency, not liquidity, not confidence. Solvency issues in Greece, Spain, and Portugal have now affected the core.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Ambrose Evans-Pritchard speaks of the  Self-serving myths of Europe’s neo-Calvinists        In his article he chastises Germany for its role in the Eurozone mess, citing Germany’s Wolfgang Schauble and the northern neo-Calvinists. Pritchard also praises a report by Simon Tilford and Philip Whyte on how  stricter rules threaten the eurozone .      There is certainly much in the report that I agree with, primarily a description of the problem. Unfortunately, there is even more I disagree with, notably the solution.      Ideas I agree with:        Creditor countries cannot be absolved of all blame.    If the eurozone had been a fully-fledged fiscal union, it would not be in its  current  predicament. (Mish: It would be a  different  predicament, likely much worse)    The current crisis is not simply a tale of fiscal irresponsibility and lost competitiveness in the eurozone’s geographical periphery. It is also about the unsustainable macroeconomic imbalances to which the launch of the euro contributed (in creditor and debtor countries)    The challenges presented by Greece were always going to be daunting, given the dysfunctional nature of its political economy.    The medicine prescribed to Greece – which was partly motivated by an urge to punish it and to take a stand against moral hazard – was doomed to failure.    A year’s worth of punishing austerity and contracting activity has only succeeded in pushing Greece deeper into insolvency.    The eurozone will not emerge from the debt crisis without economic growth.    It is now clear that a currency shared by fiscally sovereign member states is more vulnerable to losses of confidence than a monetary union that is more fully integrated.    A familiar pattern has now set in. Under market duress, leaders hold an emergency summit and announce an agreement designed to restore confidence once and for all.    After an initial bout of euphoria, financial markets digest the contents of the agreement, conclude that it does not resolve the underlying problems, and the cycle starts all over again. Each agreement buys less time and the stakes become larger with every summit.       Hopefully we can all agree on those 10 points. The problem is the Euro was fatally flawed from the beginning.       No in Many Languages       No currency union has ever survived without there being a fiscal union at the same time. Is Germany to blame for this?      I say Nein, Non, Ochi, Iie, Nie, Nej, and of course No.       Who is to Blame?       The rules of the Maastricht Treaty were known by everyone at the outset and there were many architects of the Euro idea including Jean-Claude Trichet. In that regard it makes as much sense to blame France as it does Germany.       Moreover, countries could have accepted or rejected the treaty. Every country had a vote (or many votes - as politicians crammed the Euro down their citizens' throats whether they wanted it or not).      The UK chose wisely, other countries did not, including Germany. Every country stupid enough to enter this untenable arrangement can look in the mirror and blame themselves.       The Non-Solutions       Unfortunately, the rest of the report borders on the nonsensical, notably " All eurozone countries should therefore finance debt by issuing bonds which would be jointly guaranteed by all of them. "      The authors then proceed to discuss all the inherent problems with the idea including " moral hazards ", borrowing targets, etc, stating " A dogmatic target of budgetary balance four years hence, irrespective of a country’s position in the economic cycle, would achieve little. "       The authors then have to figure out a way around dogmatic targets, proposing " rules should be set with reference to the cyclically-adjusted fiscal position for each member state. "      That of course creates another problem as to how to do that, coming to the conclusion that 17 votes is too many, and a creditor-dominated board would not work, but " A board of nine economists, from the big eurozone economies, the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the OECD  might  form a good basis. "      Good grief.         Wait, I am not done yet. The authors freely admit " the issuance of eurobonds will not prevent debt crises in the absence of steps to reduce trade imbalances within the eurozone "  then attempt to dream up solutions to that problem.      That idea makes as much sense as attempting to solve a trade disparity between California and Indiana.         We are still not done yet. The authors see a need to " set up a jointly-funded, eurozone-wide deposit protection scheme. "      Finally, the authors conclude " The ECB’s mandate is too restrictive. The central bank must guard against excessive inflation. But its fear of inflation blinds it to the much more serious threats confronting the eurozone economy. "      Apparently Europe needs a "mandate" but one that is meaningless, and allows the central bank to print at will.       Conclusion          The authors ramble on about various problems, real and imagined, then conclude with ...    Eurozone leaders now face a choice between two unpalatable alternatives. Either they accept that the eurozone is institutionally flawed and do what is necessary to turn it into a more stable arrangement. This will require some of them to go beyond what their voters seem prepared to allow, and to accept that a certain amount of ‘rule-breaking’ is necessary in the short term if the eurozone is to survive intact. Or they can stick to the fiction that confidence can be restored by the adoption (and enforcement) of tougher rules. This option will condemn the eurozone to self-defeating policies that hasten defaults, contagion and eventual break-up.  Indeed, Not       Pritchard, cited the above paragraph and finished with "Indeed. Read it all"      I did read it all and nearly threw up at the self-serving myth there are only two options.        Break the rules    Stick to self-defeating policies        There is a third option and Pritchard should know it well: Plan for a breakup of the Eurozone and make banks write down bad investments. Bondholders will take a hit, but they deserve to. It is time to stop bailing out banks at the expense of taxpayers.      The report by Simon Tilford and Philip Whyte with all their convoluted solutions culminating in the creation of a "fiscal nanny-zone" should be enough to convince anyone the Euro is not worth saving.      Countries that disagree can keep the damn thing. If France wants a fiscal nanny-state and unlimited printing by the ECB, fine. Let France have it.       True Solution        The best solution and the one I propose is for Germany to leave the Eurozone. I am quite sure other countries in Northern Europe would follow. The Euro will still survive in my proposal, and France can be king of the nanny-hill if it elects to stay in.      Yes this would be disruptive. However, it would give the Euro-fools what they want and Northern European voters (not politicians) what they want.      Michael Pettis outlined a compelling case why Germany exiting the Eurozone is the best option. Please see  Eurozone Breakup Logistics (Never Believe Anything Until It's Officially Denied)  for details.       The Euroskeptics Were Right        The Euroskeptics were right, straight from the beginning. Pritchard was among those skeptics. He was right then. He was also correct in a major way when he stated the German supreme court would not allow Eurobonds or ECB printing.      Please see  Germany's    Top Judge Throws Major Monkey Wrench Into Leveraged EFSF Machinery,    Demands New Constitution and Popular Referendum for Further Powers  for details.      Unfortunately he is wrong now. In more ways than one.        Pritchard is wrong on who to blame    Pritchard is wrong to perpetrate the myth the euro can be saved     Pritchard is wrong about fearing deflation (a natural state of affairs actually, it is only fractional reserve lending and mountains of debt that bring upon such fears. The solution is to get rid of central bankers and end fractional reserve lending)    Pritchard is wrong to not fear inflation in the scenario proposed by Tilford and Whyte.         Eurobond, Unlimited Printing Foolishness       I am not the only one who thinks the eurobond, unlimited printing idea is beyond foolish. John Hussman had an excellent writeup on Monday  Why the ECB Won't (and Shouldn't) Just Print     Over the past week, we've heard all sorts of propositions that the European Central Bank (ECB) "must" begin printing money to bail out Italy and other countries, because "there is no other option." There are three basic difficulties with this idea.      The first is that ECB buying might help to address immediate liquidity issues of distressed European countries, but it would not address long-term solvency issues, and would in fact make them worse.      The second is that the ECB, under existing European treaties, has no such authority, and the prohibitions against it are very explicit. Changing that would be far more difficult than many market participants seem to believe, because it would require an explicit and unanimous change in the EU Treaties that AAA rated countries such as Germany and Finland vehemently oppose.       The third difficulty is that even if the ECB was to buy the debt of distressed European countries with printed money, the inflationary effects would likely be far more swift than anything we've seen in the United States. This would not "save" the euro, but would simply destroy it by other means .  Hussman builds an excellent case.      I will conclude the way Pritchard did: "Indeed. Read it all".       Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   A few weeks ago many thought a breakup up the eurozone was "unthinkable". Today, "disaster plans" are being made by numerous banks to allow for just that event.      The Wall Street Journal reports  Banks Ponder Euro-Zone Split     A key part of the world's foreign-exchange trading infrastructure is bracing itself for the possibility of a breakup of the euro zone, the latest sign investor concerns about the Continent's debt crisis are on the rise.      CLS Bank International, which operates a platform in which banks settle most of their currency trades, is running "stress tests" to prepare for the possible dissolution of the euro, according to people familiar with the situation.      Some of the 63 banks that co-own CLS are making similar plans. "We always plan for contingencies," said a senior executive at one of the largest currency-dealing banks.      New York-based CLS is by far the biggest name in the currency market known to be making preparations for such a scenario. Analysts with Japanese bank Nomura Holdings said Friday that a euro breakup is a "very real risk," while HSBC Holdings analysts told clients on Tuesday that it's "not unimaginable" for countries to leave the euro zone.   This is the kind of discussion and action that is needed because a breakup appears inevitable.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent         Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Sovereign debt yields and spreads are under renewed pressure today in Italy, Belgium, and Spain.       Sovereign Debt Table 10-Year Bonds          Country  Change  Yield  Spread      Germany  +.02  1.93  0.00      France  +.04  3.57  1.64      Spain  +.01  6.61  4.68      Italy  +.06  6.88  4.95      Portugal  -.02  11.28  9.35      Belgium  +.06  5.14  3.21      Ireland  +.47  8.21  6.28              Sovereign Debt Table 2-Year Bonds          Country  Change  Yield  Spread      Germany  -.01  0.38  0.00      France  +.06  1.78  1.40      Spain  +.08  5.83  5.45      Italy  +.07  7.06  6.68      Portugal  -.35  14.63  14.25      Belgium  +.10  4.39  4.01      Ireland  +.02  8.38  8.00             Note the inverted yield curve for Italy and Belgium.      Italian 2-year bonds were smacked hard today, opening at 7.27% before calming down to 7.06%. The 10-year yield opened at 6.85 and surged to 6.98 before calming down to 6.88%. 2-year Italian bonds are not only above 7%, but also yield more than 10-year bonds.      Note: At 4:13 ET 2-Year Italian bonds are back up to 7.21%, and climbing way faster than 10-Yr bonds at 6.91%      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent         Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   The global recession has begun. Europe is undeniably in recession, the US is on the way, and Chinese manufacturing just entered contraction.      MarketWatch reports  China manufacturing gauge shows contraction     HSBC’s preliminary China manufacturing survey fell to a 32-month low in November, well below analysts’ forecasts, with the reading signaling the sector is now contracting.      The Purchasing Managers Index printed at 48.0 on a 100 point scale, reversing from a mildly expansionary reading of 51.0 in October, HSBC reported Wednesday.      Consensus forecasts for had called for a 50.1 result, just above the 50 level that separates expansion from contraction, according to CNBC.       “As inflation is likely to decelerate at a faster-than-expected pace, it will leave more room for Beijing to step up selective easing measures, which should gradually filter through to keep China on track for a soft landing,” HSBC economist Hongbin Qu said in comments accompanying the flash PMI release.   Soft-Landing Nonsense       Everyone is looking for the Fed, the ECB, and the Chinese Central Bank to steer the global economy to the proverbial "soft-landing".      Yet the fact remains, trillions of dollars have been spent already, hoping to forestall another recession. Every action has added to debt in the US, UK, Japan, and Europe, and created a huge inflationary construction boom in China.      Crude is still hugging $100 a barrel. Food prices are up. Is the Fed going to launch another round of QE into that? I doubt it. I doubt China does either, especially with a regime change coming up.      Is Congress going to approve stimulus changes that would help Obama get re-elected? The idea is laughable.       Crash Landing       Should central banks step in, watch for gold, crude, and oil prices to rise, and little else to happen. Central banks and world governments have applied so much totally useless Keynesian and Monetarist stimulus to prevent the inevitable, there may be no landing at all (soft or hard), until a global crash.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   European officials have had enough of the technocrat leadership in Greece. They have given a week for Antonis Samaras, the leader of New Democracy party, and member of the coalition to sign a document saying he will support the European Union debt plan.      He says he will support the plan (with modifications). The EU wants a signature now, with no changes.       Does a Signature Even Matter?        Other than pigheadedness on behalf of the EU, does a signature even matter? Why? The next government can easily vote to undo whatever this government does. Will Samaras remain in power? Is his signature binding on the next parliament (or even this one)?      I will have more questions in a moment but first consider a couple of articles.       EU Gives Deadline on Signatures       Ekathimerini reports  EU sets deadline for signatures     European officials insisted on Tuesday that party leaders in Greece’s coalition government must provide written guarantees expressing their commitment to a new European Union debt plan before a Eurogroup summit next Tuesday to unlock crucial rescue funding. But center-right New Democracy appeared unmoved and the right-wing Popular Orthodox Rally (LAOS) -- the third party in the coalition -- appeared to harden its stance against the country’s creditors.      Sources in Brussels told Kathimerini that the EU decided to send Athens the ultimatum after talks between European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and New Democracy’s vice president Stavros Dimas, who is also foreign minister, failed to secure a shift in the stance of ND president Antonis Samaras, who has refused to offer written guarantees to Brussels, saying his word should be enough.      Eurogroup chief Jean-Claude Juncker, who received Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos in Strasbourg, said he hoped party leaders would fulfill EU demands by Tuesday. “Would there be no cross-party agreement, that disbursement of course could not take place,” Juncker said, referring to an 8-billion-euro loan without which Greece faces default next month.      There was pressure from elsewhere too. Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said his country would bar further aid unless Samaras changes his tune. “We want to see a signature from Mr Samaras… otherwise, as far as I am concerned, they will get no money. Absolutely not.” But ND spokesman Yiannis Michelakis indicated that ND’s leader was unmoved. “I have nothing to add on the issue of the signature that is being asked of Samaras,” he said.      Meanwhile the leader of LAOS, Giorgos Karatzaferis, shifted from his earlier suggestion that he would do “everything necessary” to secure crucial loans, saying that instead of signing a letter, he would write an article outlining his commitments in his party’s newspaper.  Samaras Won't Sign, Sends Letter Instead       Athens News reports  Samaras won't sign, EPP letter published     As the pressure mounts on the major Greek party leaders to provide written support for the October 26/27 eurozone deal, New Democracy (ND) president Antonis Samaras has reiterated his stance that he will not sign such a statement.      ND party spokesman Yiannis Mihelakis stressed on Tuesday that he has nothing further to add on the issue of  Samaras' signature over commitments requested by the EC-ECB-IMF 'troika'. Mihelakis added that Samaras has made specific statements saying he backs the October 26 EU summit agreement, adding that no request has been made on behalf of the European Union as regards the ND leader’s signature.       In the letter, Samaras underlines the fact that he supports Prime Minister Lucas Papademos and the targets of fiscal adjustment but notes that “certain policies have to be modified”.  Policy Changes?       Who blinks first? Samaras or the EU?      While pondering that question, consider this logic from my friend Bran who every day sends me links like those above.      Bran writes ...    Imagine a US bill launched by the Democrats affecting international shipping. Suppose the bill gets a mixed vote and passes.       Along come the Chinese who are part beneficiaries of the bill and they then insist not just the President sign it, but also demand the head of the Republican party to do so, or they will not abide by their reciprocally enacted legislation.  Just imagine that setup and tell me how Speaker of the House John Boehner or Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell might react.      Even if the Congressional leaders did sign such a document, would it be binding on the next Congress?      In the case of Greece, elections will be held early next year (supposedly). With all these demands and all this political posturing, one has to wonder.      I for one hope Samaras holds firm and does not sign. The quicker the Eurozone blows up, the better it will be for everyone.       Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   The Eu Observer reports  EU staff to go on strike     EU staff unions have re-iterated their threat to go on strike after negotiations with the European Commission failed to produce an agreement on a new package of pay and pension changes.      “If Sefcovic does not reopen the negotiations, we will go on strike,” said Felix Geradon, secretary-general of the Union Syndicale, the biggest of the eleven within the institutions.      Earlier this month, the unions gave the commission a strike notice, giving warning that they are prepared to down tools for one day any time between 23 November and 17 December, a move that would practically shut down the European Commission.  Would Anyone Notice?       The key to answering that question is found in the preceding paragraph: the strike " would practically shut down the European Commission ".      If true, people might notice a stunning improvement in productivity, fewer stupid rules as described in  EU Bans Claim "Drinking Water Can Prevent Dehydration" Expect More Such Stupidity if European Nanny-Zone Fiscal Union Forms , and a general overall improvement in economic confidence.      Unfortunately, such a productivity-improving strike would likely not last long enough for people to notice the EC is (at best) totally useless, and at worst economically damaging in a major way.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   The market spurted higher mid-morning over new and improved credit lines by the IMF, and another never-ending discussion by the Fed about increasing liquidity.      Bloomberg reports  IMF Revamps Credit Lines to Lure Nations     The Washington-based IMF today said the new instrument, the Precautionary and Liquidity Line, can be tapped by countries with strong economies currently facing short-term liquidity needs. Countries with potential needs can also apply, as they did in the past under the Precautionary Credit Line that the new instrument replaces.      “The reform enhances the Fund’s ability to provide financing for crisis prevention and resolution,” IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in an e-mailed statement. “This is another step toward creating an effective global financial safety net to deal with increased global interconnectedness.”      The changes, which enable countries that pre-qualify to request IMF funds without having to make as many policy changes as with traditional loans, come as Europe’s crisis threatens to spread to Spain and France. The IMF is co-financing bailouts in Greece, Portugal and Ireland and is preparing to send a team to Italy for an unprecedented audit of the country’s efforts to cut its debt.      The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index pared losses after the report.   Not Big News       Via email, Bank of America / Merrill Lynch says "This is Not Big News"        The IMF has announced some easier access to their limited supply of funds (as below). Despite the eye catching headlines, BofAML do not think that this is particularly new news, nor that financially impactful, unfortunately except possibly for smaller countries and even that is unclear.       Thanos (ex-IMF): Thinks the IMF's PLL is in no way a game changer by itself. The PLL could be used in east Europe. It could also be used in Italy and Spain, but more for its conditionality than for its limited firepower compared to funding needs.  And in any case, an SBA or even an EFF would be better for Italy and Spain, as such arrangements have more conditions linked to reforms.       Laurence Boone (Head of Euro Econ): Thinks this does not necessarily mean more money. It means easier access to IMF money. In 2008/09 euro national central banks lent about $75bn to the IMF, a repeat of this lending is something they may or may not be able to repeat this time.       Ardash (BofAML APAC): Points out the PLL was flagged during the G20 summit and mentioned in its communique - officials have already suggested it would be more appropriate for financing needs of smaller countries, rather than the big fish (Italy and Spain).. even 10x quota is simply not enough, let alone judging whether they are committed to "sound policies".        Expect Continued Bull Market in Meaningless Headlines       Note the market continues to move on meaningless headlines. Also note the duration of each move higher keeps getting shorter. That means we can expect a huge bull market in meaningless headlines as EU officials, Eurozone officials, and the IMF keep searching for things to say to placate the markets.       "Lure" the Perfect Word       By the way, Bloomberg's headline title is near-perfect. The phrase "lure nations" is appropriate. "To their economic death" needs to be added.      This is what I think of the IMF as noted in  To Ireland With Love .               IMF's Trojan Horse Gift to Ireland      I believe we have all heard the story and know how it ends.         Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Here is a humorous chart from a nice E-Wave site called  Pretzel Logic's Charts and Analysis .       Nasdaq 100 Index                  click on chart for sharper image    
   Plans to cut debt have failed nearly everywhere I look.        Greece is obvious enough and a government collapsed over it.    Spain is obvious enough and a government collapsed over it.    Italy is obvious enough and a government collapsed over it.    Portugal is obvious enough and a government collapsed over it.    US is obvious enough and the failure of the super-committee to come to agreement is proof enough       In the UK, news is just as "reassuring" as Prime Minister David Cameron says " Our Plan to Cut Debt is Failing "    David Cameron and his senior ministers have admitted for the first time that there is a danger they will not be able to tackle borrowing on time.       The Prime Minister on Monday conceded that tackling Britain’s debts was “proving harder than anyone envisaged”, raising the prospect that the Coalition would be unable to close the deficit by 2014-15.      That would rule out any significant tax cuts before the next election. It also raises questions about the Coalition’s fundamental purpose.      Departing from the deficit-reduction timetable could raise fears that Britain will face rising borrowing costs as bond markets take fright.      Debt is “a drag on growth”, Mr Cameron told business leaders. “We are well behind where we need to be,” he said.       Kenneth Clarke, the Justice Secretary, has warned that the global economy is “in a devil of a mess”, which is “bound to have an effect” on the Coalition’s plans to clear most of the deficit before the next election.      The candid remarks pave the way for George Osborne, the Chancellor, to admit next week that his target will be missed and the structural deficit will not be erased until at least 2015-16. The odds Cameron will succeed by 2016 are the same as the odds he would succeed by 2014. Zero.      At least the UK admits failure. In the US we have a situation best described as  Mission Accomplished: Nothing; Kerry Says No Problem "Lawmakers Have a Year"; Boehner's, Pelosi's "Moral Obligations" Fly Out the Window       Mission a Brilliant Success, Achieves 100% of Its Goals       The Super Committee accomplished nothing, as expected, and more  importantly, as designed. Neither political party really wanted to do  anything about the deficit (because it would cost them votes). By D.C.  standards this mission was a "brilliant success". It achieved its  purpose, which was to do nothing. Both parties got the smoke-and-mirrors  delay they wanted, while pointing fingers at the other side.  One Success Story       Those looking for a success story can find it in Iceland. It truly is different in Iceland because Icelandic citizens were actually give a chance to vote on what to do, and vote they did against the wishes of parliament, to tell the IMF and EU to go to hell (twice I need to add, because incompetent politicians were hell-bent on stopping default following the first vote).       Iceland defaulted. The result has been spectacular. Iceland is well on its way to recovery.      Meanwhile, PIIGS flounder around like fish out of water, shoved bales of austerity and ordered by outsiders and unelected officials to breathe.       The current situation is hopeless. Politicians either need to accept that fact, or put things to a vote like Iceland did.      Serious restructuring and a breakup of the Eurozone is the only solution.       Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Panic is spreading says Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank. Steen eyes the perfect storm including a potential "Chapter 11" call for European banks.      Via Email    This morning there is too much bad news.      US Super Committee failed to find the 1.2 trillion US Dollar needed to stop the automatic spending cuts being initiated from 2012, but the more acute problem being the expiration of the payroll tax and the emergency benefits by year-end 2011. It now looks less likely a deal can be struck as Congress now have even less incentive to find common ground ahead of next year US election.      The immediate impact could be a full one percent slower growth in the US – Goldman Sachs provided this excellent graph detailing the potential negative impact: The number could be -2.0% to -0.5% in first two quarter of 2012 – again underlining our believe in an economic perfect storm as the most likely scenario:                click on chart for sharper image    
   Credit stress continues in Europe with a spotlight on several countries, none of the typical culprits.       Hungary Seeks Aid From EU, IMF        The Wall Street Journal reports  Hungary Seeks Aid From EU, IMF     The European Commission said Monday that it has received a formal request from Hungary to receive financial assistance from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.      "The Commission will examine the authorities' request in close consultation with EU member states and the IMF," the commission, which has antitrust powers in the EU, said in a statement.      In a separate statement, International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde also said it has "received a request from the Hungarian authorities for possible financial assistance."      The ministry said it expects to start the negotiations before Christmas, with a new agreement to be concluded in the initial months of 2012. It didn't disclose details on the nature of the requested IMF support. The government would seek a deal with the IMF on an insurance contract to reassure investors and to allow Hungary to raise the capital it needs, it said.      No Government in Belgium Since June 2010, Negotiator Quits       Belgium is still without a government and has been since June 2010. Every time there has been a hint of a breakthrough, the setup collapses. Fed up with lack of progress, the  Belgian chief government negotiator asks to quit     BRUSSELS: The lead negotiator in Belgium’s drawn-out government formation tendered his resignation on Monday after talks for a 2012 budget ground to a halt, a move which threatened to derail the country’s near 18-month search for a new administration.      Elio Di Rupo, leader of the French-speaking Socialists, had attempted to form a government based on a six-party coalition of Dutch and French-speaking Socialists, Liberals and Christian Democrats but there was little common ground on how to make the budget cuts mandated by the European Union.      Parties in the debt-heavy country had sought to save 11.3 billion euros and keep the country’s deficit below 2.8 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), in line with EU rules, but could not agree how to divide the deficit reduction between new taxes and savings.      When the budget talks, which are essential to the formation of a new government, made no progress on Monday, Di Rupo handed in his resignation to the country’s monarch, King Albert II.        Di Rupo handed in his resignation once before, in July, when talks over the electoral boundaries collapsed. At that stage the palace did not accept his resignation and talks resumed shortly after.      Belgium has come under market pressure over its lack of a new government and sovereign debt nearly as big as its GDP, with its cost of borrowing increasing steadily. Spreads between Belgian 10-year bonds and benchmark German Bunds rose sharply in November, going above 300 basis points, up from 103 basis points at the start of 2011.      Belgium’s interim government, headed by Yves Leterme, is preparing an emergency budget, based on the 2011 budget.  Austrian Banks to Limit Lending to East       The Financial Times reports  Austrian Banks  Told to Limit Lending to East     Austrian bank supervisors have instructed the country’s banks to limit future lending in their east European subsidiaries, a further sign of the potential knock-on effects of the eurozone crisis for economies around the world.      The restrictions come as Austrian officials seek to defend the country’s AAA credit rating, amid concerns that the government might have to bail out its banks because of losses in central and eastern Europe, where they are the biggest lenders, and their exposure to Italy.       The moves by Austria, which appear to be unilateral, show how even the eurozone’s strongest economies are feeling the pressure of the sovereign debt crisis.      The Austrian central bank said in a statement that Erste Group, Raiffeisen Bank International and Bank Austria, owned by UniCredit of Italy, would be prevented from loaning significantly more in CEE countries than what they raise in local deposits. Subsidiaries that are “particularly exposed” must ensure the ratio of new loans to local refinancing is not more than 110 per cent.      The three banks’ CEE exposure exceeds Austrian GDP, raising concerns that the government would be unable to bail them out if their loan portfolios turned sour. The announcement came just as the spreads of Austrian bond yields over German Bunds rose to record highs and was also designed to calm market jitters, a central bank official said. A quick check of  Belgium 10-year government bonds  shows the yield has risen to 4.87% vs. 1.91% for Germany.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Things are really humming along in Greece, complete with an official denial of instability in the Greek banking system.       Please consider  Government Doubles Bank Guarantees     State guarantees to Greek commercial banks are to double from 30 billion to 60 billion euros in order to secure liquidity in the market, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told lawmakers in Athens on Monday.      Addressing Parliament’s Financial Affairs Committee, Venizelos said that ensuring the market’s cash flow continues will secure the liquidity of the banking system and safeguard bank deposits.      “The Greek banking system is guaranteed with indefinite liquidity and there is no issue with the stability of the system. This is the case for all eurozone countries,” Venizelos said.  "Official Denial" is Ominous          The concept of  official denial  comes from  British television sitcom,  Yes, Minister .      “The  first rule of politics,” Sir Humphrey, the wily civil servant in the  show, insists is: “never believe anything until it is officially  denied.”      In case you missed it please see  Eurozone Breakup Logistics (Never Believe Anything Until It's Officially Denied)        The statement by Venizelos "there is no issue with the stability  of the system" is an ominous sign. So is the doubling of state "guarantees". The sane thing to do in Greece is immediately pull all your funds from Greek Banks.      For further discussion, please see  History Suggests Greece Will Freeze Bank Deposits, Exit Euro by Christmas; Spain and Portugal to Follow Next Year; What's the Rational Thing to Do?       That is not a prediction, it is a statement saying "do not take any chances".      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   The official "deadline" for the alleged SuperCommitte to come to an agreement is November 23. However, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), needs to have reached a deal today.       The Super Wimps failed in their mission as anyone with any common sense might have guessed. There simply is no sense of urgency.      This paragraph from the Bloomberg article  Supercommittee Is Said to Be Poised to Announce Failure of Talks  says all you need to know:    Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, a Democrat on the panel, said lawmakers have a year before the automatic spending cuts are set to occur. “We have an election between now and then and a lot can take place,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. Yes indeed, the real deadline is not tomorrow but rather 2013. A lot can happen by then, including a decision to not cut anything at all.       Boehner's Moral Obligation Goes Out the Window     Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, have said they support the trigger. “The markets should know that the deficit reduction will occur,” Pelosi said on Nov. 3. Boehner has said he “personally” feels a moral obligation to uphold the cuts.     So much for Boehner's "Moral Obligations" and Pelosi's promise to do something.       McCain Goes One Step Further        McCain, even went one step further.     Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican, and Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, are already trying to use legislative levers to stop the automatic cuts from taking effect.   Cuts? Who Needs Cuts?       Clearly McCain is a hypocrite. Were it not for an even worse setup in Europe, the US dollar would be taking a pounding here.       Expect US Debt Downgrades        Look for further downgrades of US debt by Moody's, Fitch, and S&amp;P.      To even things out, look for downgrades of France as well.       "Super Committee" Idiocy       Please consider what I had to say on July 25, 2011 in  "Super Committee" is Super Idiocy      Super Committee Nonsense       I  thought it was Tim Geithner who came up with the "Super Committee" idea  but he was merely silly enough to latch on to it. The latest  hare-brained scheme comes from Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell  and Majority Leader Harry Reid.      Constitutional concerns aside, abdicating legislative responsibility to a  super committee with super powers is idiotic. Besides didn't the  Gang-of-Six just attempt to do something similar? And where did that  plan go after a year of wrangling?      Is a 12 man committee more likely to agree to something than a 6 man committee?  Anyone who thinks so has mush for brains.      Of  course the whole idea might be to save face for both parties so that no  one has to do anything but point fingers and blame the other side for  lack of sensible action.      Each passing day delivers more reasons to be disgusted with leaders of both parties.  Mission a Brilliant Success, Achieves 100% of Its Goals       The Super Committee accomplished nothing, as expected, and more importantly, as designed.  Neither political party really wanted to do anything about the deficit (because it would cost them votes). By D.C. standards this mission was a "brilliant success". It achieved its purpose, which was to do nothing. Both parties got the smoke-and-mirrors delay they wanted, while pointing fingers at the other side.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Here are some charts and commentary from Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank in Copenhagen.      Via email, Steen writes ...    We have a new stress high in our indicators. Core Europe is under pressure.      In Europe the two new Super technocrats (Papademos and Monti) meets with EU officials over the course of next two days. Expect “compliance” to be the buzz-word, but  Greek opposition party chief resists EU/IMF pressure on pledge : “…there is no need to provide written guarantee because his word can be trusted”      There is rising concern about Greece, and with S&amp;P down nearly 19 points on the open of Europe, it looks like a new level of alertness.      So keep an eye out on ECB and its now massive support program – below is the Gross amount bought – the key this week is last week intervention size.      Safe travels,      Steen Jakobsen  |  Chief Economist  ECB Securities Markets Programme (Bond Purchases‎) in Millions of Euros                That's quite a bit given the ECB's insistence it will not be a lender of last resort.      Last week there was much ado over nothing when the ECB said it would "limit" the amount of purchases to 20 billion Euros a week. The interventionists all complained.       Did anyone bother to do the math on that? 20 billion euros * 52 = 1.04 trillion Euros and interventionists screamed bloody murder.       Reuters says  ECB keeps handbrake on as bond buys hit 8 billion euros .       Handbrake Math, Intervention Math       8 billion euros * 52 = 416 billion Euros, nearly as big as the EFSF.      Moral of the story: There is never enough intervention to suit interventionists.      Why?      Intervention never works. All it can do is create a bigger problem elsewhere.       Stress Indicators        Meanwhile please ponder these charts from Saxo Bank that form the basis of Steen's assertion "We have a new stress high in our indicators."       click on any chart for sharper image         France - Germany 10-Year Government Bond Spread                 Italy and Belgium 5-Year US$ CDS                 Italy and Greece Demand Deposits                 Denmark - Germany 10-Year Government Bond Spread                    Euro Basis 3-Month Swaps                 Money Market Warning Signals       On November 3, there was an article in the Wall Street Journal that will help explain the significance of Euro Basis Swaps. Please consider  Three-Month Euro Dollar Cross Currency Basis Swap Widens     Swapping euros into dollars is becoming extremely expensive, according to a leading indicator that is at its widest level since December 2008.      The three-month euro/dollar cross-currency basis swap is at minus 118 basis points versus minus 102 basis points on Wednesday. That's still shy of the minus-215 level it reached amid the financial turmoil of October 2008, but the indicator is now trading at levels where bankers say it is flashing warning signals about the functioning of money markets.      The debt crisis in Europe has created stronger demand for dollars, making it more pricey to get access to such funding. Banks and other firms that operate globally and need dollars have had limited access to the greenback, as investors have been wary of lending to them, so they have been relying more heavily on the euro-dollar swap market to meet their financing needs. This route has become increasingly more costly for them.       Traders say the three-month cross currency basis swap is showing greater stress than the one year swap because borrowers want to fund themselves past the end of the year. They also do not want to be seen as leaning on central banks for long-term funding, which is an option for them.  The Euro Basis 3-Month Swap continues to widen, a clear sign of increasing stress.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   I used to have a modicum of respect for Bob Schieffer, host of Face the Nation. Not anymore. Instead of conducting an interview, Schieffer acted with clear intent to discredit Ron Paul. It backfired on Schieffer when Paul held his ground and refused to be cutoff by Schieffer's biased comments.                      Link if YouTube Video does not play:  Ron Paul on Face the Nation       Ron Paul supporters should check out and participate in  Paul's SuperVoter Bomb . Any amount will help.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   A securities analyst sent a note this morning "I just received this today from a company I have used for 3 years."      He was referring to a memo from Currency Online regarding  Restriction of our service to USA based clients  Regrettably I write to inform you that, due to changes in legislation, we will be unable to continue to offer our international money transfer services to clients located in the United States of America (USA). As a result, any existing transactions that you have outstanding with Currency Online will be completed in the normal way, however you will be unable to undertake any new transfers.      Below we have anticipated some of the questions you may ask. Should you have any further questions please email us at customercare@currencyonline.com or call us on our free phone number 1866 420 7697.      Q: Can I still access my online account?   A: Yes. While you will be unable to undertake further FX transactions with Currency Online, you can still log into your account and have full access to review funds held on account plus any current and historical transactions.   Q: What happens to my existing FX transactions?   A: Simply complete the contract as normal. Please ensure you deliver your funds by the agreed value date and we will pay your purchased funds to the nominated beneficiary.   Q: What do I do if I have a Market Order in place?   A: As the outcome of a market order is an FX transaction we will unfortunately need to cancel any outstanding Market Orders you have. We shall, if we have not already done so, be calling you directly.   Q: What if I am no longer located in the USA?   A: Simply provide us with your new proof of address and you will be able to continue to use our services as normal.      Once again, please accept our sincere apologies for any inconvenience this may cause. We will of course let you know should we resume our services to US based clients. In the meantime, we thank you for your support and understanding.      The team at Currency Online  Capital Flight and Forced Repatriation in Europe          Bruce Krasting had an excellent article over the weekend on ZeroHedge regarding  Capital Flight and Forced Repatriation  Put yourself in the mind of a Greek who had some savings in a local bank. What would you do? You would do whatever you could to get your money to high ground. It would be perfectly reasonable for you to do that. And that is exactly what the Greeks have done. They’ve moved billions of Euros to Swiss banks in an effort to preserve their wealth. In the process they have crippled the Greek banks and have added to the downward spiral in Greece and the rest of the EU.      There was (IMHO) a very significant development on this front last week. A move is being made in Brussels to “force” the Swiss government/banks to transfer all of the assets of Greek citizens back to the Greek banks. For a Greek this means that your money is hostage. It has been functionally expropriated. It will be transferred into a banking system that is fraught with risk. Some portion of the money that goes back to Greece will certainly be lost.      I have talked with some who I know in Athens. They are out of their minds with this development.        BRUSSELS — The European Commission is helping Greece negotiate an agreement with Switzerland to repatriate as much as $81 billion believed to be hidden in Swiss bank accounts, a high level European Union executive body official said Nov. 17.          $81 billion? That’s massive. This is not the shopkeeper or pensioner. This is big bucks and that means the Greek shippers. It is a fact that the Greek government doesn’t tax the foreign earnings of the shippers. Call that a mistake, but that is the law. As a result, the shippers have held huge bucks in Switzerland. It’s not dirty money. Right or wrong, there was no legal tax on this.       The European Commission is working with Switzerland and Greece stop what it believes is an ongoing exodus of money from Greek bank accounts into Swiss and other offshore banking centers, the EU official said.       The only way to stop capital flight is to address the underlying causes of the flight. That can’t happen in Greece for years. The alternative is to trap the money, force it to go where it is at most risk. The owner of the money will have no choice. Any rights they might have to preserve their assets will be abrogated.      I’m amazed at this development. The Swiss government/banks are obligated to cooperate with EU tax authorities when there is evidence of tax fraud. But that is not what this is about. The people in Brussels and Bern know that. The fact is that the Greek tax system is so screwed up that there simply are no taxes levied on certain types of income/capital (the shippers). No doubt, some of the Greek cash that is in Switzerland is there because of tax avoidance. But the vast majority is simply safe haven money.      The word “Repatriation” sounds nice enough but really it means “Theft and expropriation”. There will be nothing voluntary about this. There will be little (if any) due process. If you have money in Greek banks, get it out now. If it's a small amount put it under the mattress. If it's a large amount, I am not sure where to tell you to put given pressure on Switzerland and illegal requests from the EU.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   Tonight I received a thoughtful email from reader Rick Cameron who made some observations and notes way back in 1992 and recently went back to review those notes.      His notes are regarding the  European ERM , the Exchange Rate Mechanism, that was supposed to reduce exchange rate variability and achieve monetary stability in Europe.       Before I list the thoughts of Cameron, here is some background information on the ERM and the countries involves:      The UK entered the ERM in 1990 but in 1992 Britain exited the ERM after the pound sterling came under pressure from George Soros, dubbing Soros as "the man who broke the Bank of England".      In 1993 the currency band had to be expanded 15% to accommodate speculation against the French franc and other currencies.      Wikepedia notes the ERM came to be known as an "Eternal Recession Mechanism" after Britain fell into recession during the early 1990s.       European ERM 1992 Replay        With that backdrop, please consider this Email from Cameron.    Hello Mish      I am a student of history, and I was an active investor in 1992. I have recently gone back and looked at my notes and the charts and the media comments about the UK and the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.       The parallels between the UK in 1992 and Germany in 2011 are striking.      Under the ERM, the (financially) stronger countries would be responsible for the weaker ones. Then the Berlin wall fell, the Eastern European countries tanked, and the UK was on the hook to support them.      There was lots of pressure on John Majors not to continue that policy and to leave the ERM. Political dithering followed, complete with bold speeches by both Brits and the Europeans about unity. The Brits held their ground in the face of enormous pressure on the pound, culminating with a $28B currency buyback in mid-September.       Students of history know what happened next: The Brits finally threw in the towel, left the ERM, and the pound tanked from $1.95 to 1.70 from September 19th to September 26th, then to $1.50 by November. George Soros made $2 billion.      Every article I read today about the ECB, the Germans, and the euro, resembles closely some similar article I have about the Bank of England, the British government, the ERM, and the eventual fall of the pound.      To me, it seems like an inevitable march down the same road - same players, same dithering, same posturing, same lack of attention to any of the real problems, same case of refusing to deal with any of the real issues - and sadly, the issues in 1992 were EXACTLY THE SAME as they are today.      Are the financially strong Northern European countries going to support the weaker Eastern and Southern European countries? Everyone in Europe loves the idea - until they have to write checks with their own money. Then it all come unglued, every time.      Finally, we need to not forget that the guy who stubbornly held onto the concept of the Brits supporting the ERM, no matter the cost and pain to the British taxpayers was none other than John Majors, who at the time was working on the Maastricht Treaty.       To quote Peter, Paul, and Mary "when will they ever learn?"      Have a good day      Rick Cameron  Same Issues, Same Players       Yes indeed. We have exactly the same issues and same players. Note that the UK is still on the outside looking in, with the rest of Europe clamoring to get the UK in.       The smart play would be for Cameron to stay on the outside, looking  out  as noted in  Will Cameron Sell UK Down the River for Worthless Promises? Two-Speed Europe and the Clutches of France        Since 1992, there has been an obvious change in political leadership. However, the politicians involved all still seek the same proverbial free lunch.       Irony of the  Maastricht Treaty       The irony of the Maastricht Treaty is that it did temporarily bring about the currency stability everyone wanted. However,  that currency stability came at the expense of something far worse - inherent interest rate  instability  (coupled with heightened fiscal  instability ).      It just took some time to play out.      Now, instead of attempting to defend untenable currency targets, the ECB, the Eurocrats, and the IMF all have their hands full attempting to maintain untenable interest rate targets. With yields soaring in Greece, Spain, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, and Belgium in relation to Germany, the Troika has failed.      To alleviate interest rate concerns and fiscal instability caused by the Maastricht Treaty, politicians now openly discuss breaking up the Eurozone, which of course will immediately kick off a full-blown currency crisis in various countries.       Interest Rates on Government Bonds Go Full Circle                 click on chart for sharper image       Chart from  Spiegel Online       When the currency crisis happens and the Eurozone breaks up as is inevitable, Europe will have gone full circle on both interest rates and currencies, with politicians chasing their tail every step of the way.      Mike "Mish" Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   The UK had been expected to have a voter referendum on proposed EU treaty changes. The EU of course does not want voter referendums or anything that look remotely democratic as we have seen by actions in Greece and Italy.        Deal or No Deal?       The problem for the EU is all 27 nations have to agree to treaty changes or it's no deal. A political work-around is in progress (as always).  And Merkel will allegedly give up on the Financial Transaction Tax idea if only Cameron will sign on the bottom line.       Piss Poor Deal       It's a piss poor deal and Cameron should know it. Once the EU gets what they want, Sarkozy and Merkel and others will be back at it, demanding once again the financial transaction tax and God only knows what else.       Secret Plans to Derail Referendum       The Telegraph notes  Germany's secret plans to derail a British referendum on the EU     Germany has drawn up secret plans to prevent a British referendum on the overhaul of the European Union amid concerns it could derail the eurozone rescue package, leaked documents obtained by The Daily Telegraph disclose.       Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, is today expected to tell David Cameron that Britain does not need a referendum on EU treaty changes, despite demands from senior Conservatives for more powers to be repatriated to Britain.      The leaked memo, written by the German foreign office, discloses radical plans for an intrusive new European body that will be able to take over the economies of beleaguered eurozone countries.      It discloses that the EU’s largest economy is also preparing for other European countries, which are too large to be bailed out, to default on their debts — effectively going bankrupt. It will prompt fears that German plans to deal with the eurozone crisis involve an erosion of national sovereignty that could pave the way for a European “super state” with its own tax and spending plans set in Brussels.      Britain would be relegated to a new outer group of EU members who are not in the single currency. Mr Cameron will today travel to Brussels and Berlin for tense negotiations with Mrs Merkel amid growing disagreement between the leaders over how to deal with the eurozone.       The six-page German foreign ministry paper sets out plans for the creation of a European Monetary Fund with a transfer of sovereignty away from member states.      The fund will have the power to take ailing countries into receivership and run their economies. Even more controversially, the document, entitled The future of the EU: required integration policy improvements for the creation of a Stability Union, declares that the treaty changes are a first stage “in which the EU will develop into a political union”. “The debate on the way towards a political union must begin as soon as the course toward stability union is charted,” it concludes.      The negotiating document also explicitly examines ways to limit treaty changes to speed up the reforms. It indicates that Mrs Merkel will tell Mr Cameron to rule out a popular EU vote in Britain.      “Limiting the effect of the treaty changes to the eurozone states would make ratification easier, which would nevertheless be required by all EU member states (thereby less referenda could be necessary, which could also affect the UK),” read the paper.       Open Europe, a think tank, last night called for Mr Cameron to demand something in return from Mrs Merkel for her “far-reaching plan”, which requires the unanimous consent of all 27 EU countries, giving Britain a veto.      “It would be the first step towards a vision of 'political union’ that would have major consequences for the future of the entire EU, and therefore the UK’s place within it,” said Stephen Booth, the think tank's research director.      "Merkel is daring Cameron to call her bluff, but if the UK is serious about taking a leadership role in shaping the EU, Cameron will have to take a stand sooner rather than later."      Bill Cash, chairman of the Commons European scrutiny committee, accused the Coalition of standing by in "no–man's land" while Germany shaped the EU to suit its own interests.      "We are going to get nothing significant in return for agreeing to this," he said.      Mr Cameron is today also expected to pressurise Mrs Merkel into lifting German opposition to the use of the European Central Bank to rescue the euro.   Two-Speed Europe and the Clutches of France       The Guardian reports  Cameron warned his eurozone stance risks forcing two-speed Europe        David Cameron will be warned that he risks creating an unstoppable momentum behind a "two-speed Europe", which would be dominated by France and Germany, if Britain demands too many concessions during the eurozone crisis.      In a series of meetings in Berlin and Brussels, the prime minister will be advised that Britain should table modest proposals next year when EU leaders embark on a small treaty revision to underpin the euro.      A six-page German foreign ministry paper, published by Der Spiegel this week, calls for "a ('small') convention that is precisely limited in terms of content" to present proposals "rapidly". These would then be agreed by all 27 members of the EU.      Merkel warned the prime minister at an emergency European council meeting in Brussels on 23 October that she would reluctantly have to side with France if Britain overplayed its hand in the negotiations. Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, wants a treaty to be agreed among the 17 members of the eurozone, excluding Britain and the other nine EU members outside the single currency.      This would be seen as a major step towards the formalisation of a "two-speed Europe" in which France, Germany and the four other triple A-rated eurozone members would form an inner core. Britain and Denmark, the only two members of the EU with a legal opt-out from the euro, would form the backbone of an outer core.      One Brussels diplomat said: "There is a choice the UK has to make. Does it push Germany into the clutches of France or does it try to find an accommodation with the Germans by not going too far in its demands on repatriating powers? The Germans want to find an accommodation with the British but they must not go too far." Got that? Cameron is supposed to accept a bad deal from Merkel, or Germany will make an even worse deal with France.       German Finance Minister Says UK will Join the Euro       Talk like this should scare the hell out of the UK citizens:  Britain will have to join the euro, says Tory grandee Lord Heseltine     Britain will soon have no choice but to join the euro, Tory grandee Lord Heseltine has claimed, as tensions grow over the eurozone's slow-moving efforts to get a grip on the spreading debt crisis.       The former deputy prime minister, a long-time supporter of the single currency, said the public had "no idea" about the potential impact its collapse would have on the UK.      But he believes Franco-German determination will secure the euro's future and pave the way for Britain to sign up.      Both the Coalition and the Labour Party have ruled out adopting the euro in the foreseeable future.      Last month Prime Minister David Cameron suffered the biggest ever Conservative revolt over Europe as more than 80 Conservative MPs defied his orders and backed a referendum on Britain’s membership of the European Union.      German Finance Minister Says UK will Join Euro       Please consider  Britain 'will join euro before long’, says German finance minister     Wolfgang Schäuble said that, despite the current crisis in the eurozone, the euro will ultimately emerge as the common currency of the entire European Union. He said he “respects” Britain’s decision to keep the pound, but insisted that the survival and eventual stabilisation of the euro will convince non-members to join the currency club. “This may happen more quickly than some people in the British Isles currently believe,” he added.      Mr Schäuble also said Germany will stand firm on its call for a financial transaction tax that Britain believes would badly harm the City of London.       Sir John Major, the former prime minister, warned last night that the growing integration of the eurozone nations threatens democracy in those countries. He told Al Jazeera television that richer euro members led by Germany and France will “insist on moving towards what we call fiscal union. By that I mean common control over budgets and fiscal deficits”.       Sir John, who advises David Cameron on foreign policy issues, also described the banking transaction tax as “a heat-seeking missile proposed in continental Europe, aimed at the City of London”.   Promises on Transaction Tax will not be Kept       The arrogant talk by Schäuble in and of itself should be enough to convince Cameron that the financial transaction tax talk will never go away and that no deal with Merkel can be trusted.      Thus, Cameron should not agree to any treaty changes except those for the explicit purpose of creating exit procedure for countries to leave the Euro.       The Eurozone is about to break up yet Merkel, Schäuble, Sarkozy and others still cling to failed ideas. Pressure on the UK is nothing but last minute sheer desperation by those attempting to bully the UK into accepting the creation of a nanny-zone super state.      The irony is both Cameron and Merkel want something that is blatantly stupid. Cameron wants the ECB to buy bonds on a massive scale, while Merkel wants the financial transaction tax and a nanny-zone super state. All three ideas are horrendous.      Should Cameron get sucked into a lousy deal (which means virtually any deal Merkel will offer), all Cameron would accomplish would be to prolong the agony.      Enough is enough, Cameron should tell Merkel "No Deal", which of course is the polite way of saying "Go to Hell".       Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   It's different in Vancouver says a reader in response to  Vancouver Real Estate Bubble in Pictures; Presenting the $1,050,000 "Livable" House  .      " Fortunate Fool " writes ...    Hello Mish      Vancouver is a different world. To truly appreciate it, let me give you an example. In a normal world, if you had bought a house in April 2004 for $6 million, how much would you put it for sale today? Hard to say right? Let say your house value increased with an inflation at 2% per year, that would be roughly $6.9 million. In the current economic situation, you would be happy to get that money back.       In Vancouver, it's different. If you bought at that price in 2004, you would put it back on the market in 2010 for... $17.9 million! A compounded return of 20% a year. But there is a problem, it turns out that you couldn't sell the property. So in that case, what would you do? You would decrease the price, right?       Wrong! Remember, you are in Vancouver, and it's different there. No, you would put the property back on the market for... $31.9 million! (a 78% increase from last year's price or an expected annual compounded rate of return of 27%).      Repeat after me. No, Vancouver is not in a bubble.  Fortunate Fool backs up his claim with this article from the Vancouver Sun:  Vancouver mansion for sale: $31.9 million     A house has just gone on the market at 3390 The Crescent in Shaughnessy for $31.9 million. That may sound like a lot of money, but it isn’t the highest listing price in Metro Vancouver — a house at 2190 Camelot in West Vancouver is for sale at $39.9 million. And has been, for several months.      High-end homes like this often take a while to sell, because once you get into the tens of millions, there aren’t many buyers. In fact, the $31.9-million Shaughnessy home was for sale last year for $17.9 million, but didn’t sell.      Property records list the owners as K. Fan Hiu and H.F. Chi, who purchased the home in April 2004 for $6 million. Ted Wang of Royal Pacific Realty said the couple have decided to downsize to an apartment.      Wang said the owners decided to raise the listing price after looking at the high prices mansions are commanding in Shaughnessy. He noted that a house he sold last year on Angus Drive for $5.7 million was recently assessed at $9 million.  It's Different in Bizarro World       The owners upped their price from $17.9 million (offered just last year) to $31.9 million, an increase of 78%, because they want to " downsize to an apartment ".      This of course makes perfect sense because " It's different in Bizarro World " just as it is in Vancouver.      Inquiring minds may be interested in the " Complete History of Bizarro World " from Superman to Seinfeld to Saturday Night Live.      We can safely add Vancouver to the list.      Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
   It's not often we hear candid talk from global leaders about the economic realities that lay ahead. This is one of those rare times.      Please consider  China vice premier sees chronic global recession      A long-term global recession is certain to happen and China must focus on domestic problems, Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan has said.      "The one thing that we can be certain of, among all the uncertainties, is that the global economic recession caused by the international financial crisis will be chronic," Wang was quoted by the official Xinhua news agency as saying at the weekend.      Wang's comments were the most bearish forecast ever by a top Chinese decision-maker about the world economy, and Beijing's worry about a worsening global environment could translate into an impetus for pro-growth policies at home.   Why this Astonishing Admission?       Regular Mish readers will not find that forecast surprising in the least. What is surprising is the high-ranking official who makes that forecast.      In a world of global economic denial about the Euro, about deficits in the US, about housing bubbles in Australia, China, and Canada, and in general denial about every economic woe the world faces, one might ask "why this astonishing admission?"      I have a 3-part answer         As China shifts from an untenable infrastructure model to a consumption  model, as Europe faces a Eurozone breakup and harsh recession, as the US  faces a deficit crisis (albeit halfheartedly at best),  much global  pain is in order.      By framing the problem as a global problem, the vice-premier gets to blame the world economy for the internal strife in China.       This is an indication that China is falling apart right here, right now, much faster than the Western world believes.        The admission by the vice-premier simply reflects the demise of China's export model in the face of a rapidly slowing global economy accompanied by a regime change in China that will be forced to shift its internal priorities.      These thoughts echo comments I have made previously in ...         Europe Undeniably in Recession; Germany Manufacturing PMI Contracts for First Time in Two Years, New Orders Collapse          Eurozone Breakup Logistics (Never Believe Anything Until It's Officially Denied)          Hugo Salinas Price and Michael Pettis on the Trade Imbalance Dilemma; Gold's Honest Discipline Revisited         History  Suggests Greece Will Freeze Bank Deposits, Exit Euro by Christmas;  Spain and Portugal to Follow Next Year; What's the Rational Thing to Do?         Mike  "Mish"  Shedlock   http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com       Click Here To Scroll Thru My Recent           Post List   Mike "Mish" Shedlock is a registered investment advisor representative for SitkaPacific Capital Management. Sitka Pacific is an asset management firm whose goal is strong performance and low volatility, regardless of market direction.  Visit http://www.sitkapacific.com/account_management.html to learn more about wealth management and capital preservation strategies of Sitka Pacific.    
    Classic caption-ready photo from FT Alphaville today. Monti, Merkel and Sarkozy passing the problems along.                                                   
    Classic, eye-opening stuff from Steve Jobs in the NeXT days. Watch for the interactions with his early employees.                                                        
       Didier Sornette getting his Ferriss freak on –  http://t.co/tU1fwjSt   #     The myth of renewable energy –  http://t.co/kIWFKFRa   #     Good analysis: Where is Microsoft’s growth going to come from? –  http://t.co/FaBbUivX   #     First earth images from VIIRS on new NPP satellite –  http://t.co/RSsv3NFc   #     Model risk and the great recession –  http://t.co/foLJlg2E  /cc @ EmanuelDerman   #     High-end music docks are getting truly bizarre –  http://t.co/zIipd1pM   #     The New HTC Warning is Massive –  http://t.co/HOzjF7Gu  /via @ billmccandless   #     Groupon adding to its down-bound move today, off 30% in three days &amp; saying b-bye to IPO price. Kudos.  #     Debunking the ‘Savings Glut’ Thesis –  http://t.co/WXvkLU5l   #     If only Congress were less ambitious –  http://t.co/bOW4dS3I   #     “Myside bias” — I was wrong and so are you: Liberals vs conservatives on economics –  http://t.co/9ebVIlx7   #     The Sandwich of the Year. For reals.   http://t.co/twcvMJPI   #     In U.S., Self-Reported Weight Up Nearly 20 Pounds Since 1990 –  http://t.co/I1SomoJb  /via@Richard_Florida  #     Am on @ BloombergTV  this afternoon at 3pst. Thinking of doing a Groupon-related self-congratulatory circuit of studio.  #     Family spending on food in the US, as share of total spending, has fallen by two thirds since 1901   http://t.co/StO7q7gw   #     .@ClaudRobichaux On Euro bubbles, I always remember my visit to AntFactory in London in 1999. Scarred me for life.  #     Cute reword of supercommittee statement RT @ suryasays : @ pkedrosky  how'd i do?   http://t.co/rZIDPm5Z   #     Its that time … NYTimes: 100 Notable Books of 2011  http://t.co/WhSo9gK2   #     Google quits plans to make cheap renewable energy –  http://t.co/3lcbKo2w   #     Pushed a button to lock my car and car beside mine turned on. Pushed again and it turned off. Once more and it turned on. # Correlationorama   #     Chanos speaks on China –  http://t.co/LIN1So0n   #     .@PurviRajani It was BMW and Lexus, but it was all spurious correlation. Was just unnerving.  #     Usually "smart" and "casual gaming" don't go together, but @ clemesha 's new Wiki Game for iPhone is both –  http://t.co/acFFCW1K   #     Idly wondering where GRPN ranks among fastest major (sic.) IPOs to break issuance price.  #     Taking Back the Favelas: Rio Relying on Dubious Methods to Pacify its Slums –  http://t.co/ZXWg2ejJ   #     In other TV news, taping a segment today for CBC to air tonight on the structural reset in consumer consumption. /cc @ Richard_Florida   #     Like underwater Death Eaters: Ice Tornado Kills Everything It Touches –  http://t.co/rCsEw1gB   #     Having long-ago tumbled thru its fin'l crisis lows, RIMM at $16.31 is back to Jan 2004 levels.  #     Today in Goldman news … RT @ TreeHugger : Octopus Crawls Out of Water and Begins Walking on Land   http://t.co/xxWisBj4   #     RT @ FTAlphaville : Las Vegas bets on a tech future  http://t.co/GupjsjhW   #     Microsoft back bidding for Yahoo? The gift(s) that keep on giving.  #     In other MSFT-ish news: Gates-Backed Fund Halts New Grants as Crisis Hurts Giving  http://t.co/BHWqv63P   #     My quick scan of Internet IPO data says last 'net IPO to out-worse GRPN in first 20 days trading was …. NFLX in 2002.  #     More from Net IPO data: GRPN is worst 3-week performer for Goldman as underwriter since dot-com bubble. So there's that.  #     By mixing data sources I cleverly missed NFLX's split when calc-ing worst 3-week Internet IPO performances. Whoops. GPRN back out in front.  #     Is it just me noticing, or are surgical boots newly much more common than they used to be?  #     There is someone in my tweet stream who shall go unnamed who is a wondrous source of DM fails.  #     Paper: Global Banking Glut and Loan Risk Premium –  http://t.co/7oWYe71j   #     Consumer electronics most desired by kids, 6-12 –  http://t.co/HmY6Z5XD   #     Surfline: The mechanics of Mavericks –  http://t.co/D4PpDQZm  /cc @ briannorgard   #        Powered by  Twitter Tools                                               
    Stark new Economist  cover  on the fireball that is the Euro zone.       … the threat of a disaster does not always stop it from happening. The chances of the euro zone being smashed apart have risen alarmingly, thanks to financial panic, a rapidly weakening economic outlook and pigheaded brinkmanship. The odds of a safe landing are dwindling fast.                                                        
     Click to enlarge:            Source:   How Does Google AdWords Work?    Search Engine Land Infographics                                                                                  
       From destination social to dispersed social: 10 trends in social media                View more  presentations  from  The Social Practice     
    Isabel Cavill, an analyst at Planet Retail, talks about the outlook for consumer spending and online retailers including Amazon.com Inc. She speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”          Bloomberg, Nov. 24                                                                                   
     Click for ginormous chart:            Source:     Twitter And Facebook: The Political Agenda     Media Bistro, November 22, 2011                                                                                  
    Some Turkey articles for your Thanksgiving reading pleasures:     • Black Friday 2011 deals: How about 20 percent off a new car? ( CS Monitor )   •  Diary : “The Greeks are getting what they deserve”    ( London Review of Books )   • No College Degree Will Buy Your Way Into The Top 1% ( Businessweek )   • The butterfly effect: spotted in the financial industry ( Alphaville )   • Japan ‘May Be’ Close to a Downgrade: S&amp;P  ( Bloomberg )   • Robin Wells: We Are Greg Mankiw… or Not?  ( INet )   • WTF is Cyber Monday?  ( Wikipedia )   •  Anil Dash : Facebook is now a “badware: site ( boingboing )   •  Leonardo da Vinci’s earth-shattering insights about geology  ( Guardian )   • Murdoch’s News Corp accused of trying to bribe Australian senator  ( Guradian )     What are you reading?     &gt;                                                                                          
    A Libertarian Ron Paul supporter brought this to my attention (Thanks James!):                                                                                        
    Regular readers of TBP know that I spend some time rooting around in the excellent  American Presidency Project , a remarkable resource.  Sometimes I’m looking for something specific, other times I’m just getting a feel, a flavor, for the message coming from our leadership, specifically the president.  The latter was the case when I undertook a search to see how the phrase “home ownership” has been used by presidents over time.    Herewith, FDR’s Message to Congress, April 13, 1933.  Spooky stuff.     To the Congress:    As further and  urgently necessary step in the program to promote economic recovery, I  ask the Congress for legislation to protect small home owners from  foreclosure and to relieve them of a portion of the burden of excessive  interest and principal payments incurred during the period of higher  values and higher earning power.    Implicit in the legislation which  I am suggesting to you is a declaration of national policy. This policy  is that the broad interests of the Nation require that special  safeguards should be thrown around home ownership as a guarantee of social and economic stability, and that to protect  home owners from inequitable enforced liquidation in a time of general  distress is a proper concern of the Government.    The legislation I  propose follows the general lines of the farm mortgage refinancing bill.  The terms are such as to impose the least possible charge upon the  National Treasury consistent with the objects sought. It provides  machinery through which existing mortgage debts on small homes may be  adjusted to a sound basis of values without injustice to investors, at  substantially lower interest rates and with provision for postponing  both interest and principal payments in cases of extreme need. The  resources to be made available through a bond issue to be guaranteed as  to interest only by the Treasury, will, it is thought, be sufficient to  meet the needs of those to whom other methods of financing are not  available. At the same time the plan of settlement will provide a  standard which should put an end to present uncertain and chaotic  conditions that create fear and despair among both home owners and  investors.    Legislation of this character is a subject that demands our most earnest, thoughtful and prompt consideration.      Source :    Franklin D. Roosevelt: Message to Congress on Small Home Mortgage Foreclosures.    40 – Message to Congress on Small Home Mortgage Foreclosures.   American Presidency Project, April 13, 1933    http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/index.php?pid=14618     Adding:  Did not know when BR was going to run this piece, but since he slated it for Thanksgiving, I’ll take this opportunity to wish everyone a happy, healthy and safe holiday.  Enjoy friends and family.                                                                                  
    I have repeatedly demonstrated that – despite the false  divide-and-conquer tactics of the mainstream parties and mainstream  media –  the overwhelming majority of Americans agree on the most important issues facing our country . See  this .    NO MORE BAILOUTS!    As I’ve noted since  2008 , Americans are united in their overwhelming disapproval for bailouts to the big banks.    This has remained true right up to today.    As Rassmussen found only last month (as summarized by  KXLF news ):     Today’sRasmussen Reports survey finds that most Americans don’t like bailouts for financial institutions.    60% Oppose Financial Bailouts; 74% Say Wall Street Benefited Most    Survey of 1,000 American Adults    ***    • Just 20% think it was a good idea  for the government to provide bailout funding to banks and other  financial institutions, but 60% say otherwise.    • While many activists try to link the Republican Party and Wall Street, Republicans think the bailouts were a bad idea by an eight-to-one margin.    • Those not affiliated with either major party think they were a bad  idea by a four-to-one margin. Democrats are much more evenly divided.  Thirty-four percent (34%) of those in the president’s party say the  bailouts were a good idea while 42% disagree.    • Overall, 68% believe that most of the bailout money went to the very people who created the nation’s ongoing economic crisis, but 12% disagree and 21% aren’t sure.     As the Washington Post’s Greg Sargent  notes ,  the recent proposal from lobbyists to the American Bankers Association  recommending ways to co-opt the Occupy movement accurately stated:     Well-known Wall Street companies stand at the nexus of  where OWS protestors and the Tea Party overlap on angered populism. Both  the radical left and the radical right are channeling broader  frustration about the state of the economy and share a mutual anger over  TARP and other perceived bailouts. This combination has the potential  to be explosive later in the year when media reports cover the next  round of bonuses and contrast it with stories of millions of Americans  making do with less this holiday season.     (Except that it is the majority of Americans – not “extremists” on either side of the aisle – that share this anger).    The “Tea Party” movement was centered on the protesting government bailouts of the giant banks, before it was hijacked by the mainstream Republican party, Sarah Palin, Neocons and others. See  this ,  this ,  this ,  this  and  this .    Ron Paul  said  last month at a GOP debate:     Bailouts came from both parties…. If you have to give  money out, you should give it to people losing their mortgages, not to  the banks.     And one of the most common sayings of Occupy Wall Street protesters is:     Banks got bailed out. We got sold out     (See  this  and  this .)    END CRONY CAPITALISM!    I  noted  last year:     A  Rassmussen poll  conducted in February found:     70% [of all voters] believe that the government and big  business typically work together in ways that hurt consumers and  investors.     (and see  this ).    Remember that the  government helped and encouraged the giant banks  to get even bigger, and then has  hidden their insolvency and s  hielded them from the free market,   and helped them grow even during the severe downturn.    In return, the big banks and giant corporations have  literally bought and paid  for the politicians.    Conservatives might call it “socialism” and liberals might call it “fascism” –  they are the same thing economically .    But all Americans – conservatives and liberals alike – can agree that it is not capitalism, and it is not American.     PROSECUTE WALL STREET FRAUD!    I  pointed out  a year ago:     Liberals tend to believe that the public should be  protected against harm, while conservatives tend to believe that people  should be left free to buy what they want.    Too far apart to ever agree?    No. Conservatives believe that people must be held responsible for  their actions and punished for their transgressions. Indeed, some  82%  of the American public wants tougher regulation of Wall Street.    Moreover, even for those who don’t like the government sticking its nose in our business, liberals and conservatives agree that if a  company chooses to make a representation about something, it can be  sued if it is a lie. In other words, all Americans agree that fraud laws  should be enforced against everyone from  the homeowner who fills out a mortgage application on a small house to  the head of a giant bank who makes false statements about the bank’s  balance sheets and the quality of it’s investments.    Everyone agrees that financial scammers must be tried and put in prison.     Indeed, Rasmussen  found  last month:     Two-out-of-three  Americans (66%) believe the federal government has not been aggressive  enough in pursuing possible criminal behavior by some Wall Street  bankers, but 10% don’t feel that’s true and 25% are not sure.     Economists  agree .    END – OR AT LEAST REIN IN – THE FEDERAL RESERVE!    As I  pointed out  last month, Americans are not happy with the Federal Reserve:     CNN  notes :     “We are seeing a level of enthusiasm for Ron Paul that  can be compared with President Obama in 2008″, said Eric Brakey, Media  Coordinator for NYC Liberty HQ, the grassroots organization hosting the  rally for the candidate. “Congressman Paul’s youth support is different  now than it was during his last presidential campaign. It’s more  organized and it’s picking up steam and continues to grow”.    As the longtime congressman from Texas stepped onto the stage, the crowd screamed with enthusiasm. The audience’s biggest reaction came when he spoke about ending the Federal Reserve.  “The country has changed in the last four years, but my message hasn’t  changed” Paul said. “The country is ripe for a true revolution”.     At least  75% of the American people want a full audit of the Fed , and  most were against reconfirming Bernanke .    Indeed, as Bloomberg  noted  last December:     A majority of Americans  are dissatisfied with the nation’s independent central bank, saying the  U.S. Federal Reserve should either be brought under tighter political  control or abolished outright, a poll shows.    ***    Americans across the political spectrum say the Fed shouldn’t retain  its current structure of independence. Asked if the central bank should  be more accountable to Congress, left independent or abolished entirely,  39 percent said it should be held more accountable and 16 percent that  it should be abolished. Only 37 percent favor the status quo.        Economists  agree .    RESPECT THE CONSTITUTION AND OUR LIBERTY!    As I  noted  in September, Americans want our freedom back:     Americans have become much less tolerant of the wholesale  destruction of our constitutional freedoms in the name of fighting  terrorism.    As Talking Points Memo  notes :     On the eve of the ten year anniversary of 9/11, the Pew Research Center  has released new data  on Americans’ reaction to the attacks, and the foreign and national  security policies pursued in the post 9/11 era. They show a country with  views that have evolved on the relationship between civil liberties and  the tools given to government to fight terrorism, and a disbelief that  the continuing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan helped to lessen the chance  there will be another terrorist attack on the United States.    The Pew survey showed a large shift in the number of Americans who  are willing to see some of their civil liberties go out the window in  the name of fighting terrorism. Directly after 9/11, Americans were  willing to make the deal, as 55 percent thought it was necessary,  against 35 percent who felt the opposite. Now, only 40 percent felt that giving up some civil liberties is necessary to curb terrorism, with 54 percent against.        END PERPETUAL WAR!    Americans want to  put a stop to perpetual warfare:      Ron Paul is [partly] gaining popularity because he is  against the never-ending War On Terror, and wants to bring the troops  home. Americans are sick of the never-ending, ever-creeping war. See  this ,  this  and  this .    As Talking Points Memo  reported  earlier this month:     “…Only about a quarter say the wars in Iraq (26%) and  Afghanistan (25%) have lessened the chances of terrorist attacks in the  United States,” the Pew report reads. “In both cases majorities say the  wars either have increased the risk of terrorism in this country or made  no difference.”     Top American military leaders agree, saying that  the war on terror has weakened our national security .     And a  CBS News poll  from November 11th  found :       Three-quarters of Americans support US withdrawal from Iraq.    Two-thirds of Americans believe the Iraq War was not worth fighting.    Half of Americans oppose US involvement in Libya.    More than half of Americans want to end the war in Afghanistan.    Seventy per cent of Americans do not support military intervention to change dictatorships into democracies.    55% of Americans say Iran can be contained via diplomacy.    Only 15% of Americans support military intervention in Iran.       MAKE ELECTIONS FAIR!    I  noted  last year that Americans want fair elections:     All Americans agree that … there should be free and fair  elections. That is why – according to ABC News and the Washington Post –   80 percent  of all Americans oppose the Supreme Court’s recent decision allowing  unlimited campaign contributions. Americans understand that – unless we  take the flood of money out of elections – Washington will represent  special interests, and not us.    And we all agree on publicly verifiable, automatically audited paper  ballot elections with reasonable ID requirements, so that we assured  that no party can manipulate electronic voting results.     KEEP POISON OUT OF OUR FOOD AND WATER!    I  noted  last year that Americans want safe food and water:     Americans want to be free to live our lives without being  poisoned. We agree on safe food, clean water and a healthy environment.    For example, polls show:       A large majority of Americans want  strong food safety rules , and  want genetically modified foods to be labeled           Most Americans are worried about  water pollution           Americans don’t want to be exposed to  toxic pollutants           IF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AGREE ON THESE CORE ISSUES, WHY AREN’T OUR DEMANDS BEING HEARD?    If Americans from across the spectrum agree, why aren’t these desires being implemented by our politicians?    Because our politicians are  bought and paid for … lock, stock and barrel .    And the powers-that-be are good at using the  age-old divide and conquer  trick to keep us weak, divided and fighting at each others’ throat … instead of for what we actually want.    But ultimately, the main reason that we are impotent is that we don’t realize that the overwhelming majority of Americans want the same things we do.    Indeed, most Americans – conservatives and liberals – are    fed up    with  both  the mainstream Republican  and  Democratic parties. This is not surprising, given that neither party is  addressing the core demands of the American people as a whole.    Sure, liberals and conservatives will always disagree on some things.  But if we realized how many core beliefs we share, we would  unite to take our country back  from those who disagree with fundamental American values.                                                                                  
       Visualizing the Agency of the Future               View more presentations from  JESS3     
    Holiday travel train reading:     •  Martin Wolf :  To the Eurozone: advance or risk ruin ( FT.com )  see also  Why Not Pull the Trigger on Greek Default Swaps? ( Dealbook )   • How the Dow Distorts the History of Wall Street: Echoes ( Bloomberg )   • Randomness and the lost lesson of Bill Miller ( Alphaville )   •  Bartlett : How Newt Gingrich Added $16 trillion to the National Debt ( Capital Gains and Games )   • Best Of Both (GOP) Worlds: Where’s the Ron Paul Surge? ( TPM )   •  Margin Call : A Small Movie Unveils Big Truths About Wall Street ( Pro Publica )  see also  An Interview with Writer/Director J.C. Chandor ( Pro Publica )   • Foot-dragging on faster-than-light particles? ( Smartplanet )   • Steve Jobs biopic offered to Social Network writer Aaron Sorkin ( Guardian )   • Was a giant planet kicked out?  ( Cosmic Log )   • Creeping Underwater Ice Tornado Kills Everything It Touches ( Gizmodo )     What are you reading?                                                                                  
     With some time away from the office, now is your opportunity to collect yourself and head back to cubicleville refreshed and ready to be a less annoying coworker. When you're back at the grindstone, here are three ways to be a better cubemate:       * If you eat stinky food, throw your trash away on the other side of the office.  It's inconsiderate enough that you chose to bring in that tuna sandwich or reheated chicken curry. Do right by your neighbors and don't turn a nearby trashcan into a stinkbomb for the remainder of the day.       * See that headphone jack in your computer? Use it.  We know how important it is to watch the cat video set to reggae or the Downfall parody in which Hitler complains about how many Downfall parodies there are. But let the rest of the office enjoy these treasures on their own time and invest in a set of headphones to keep the sounds to yourself.       * Keep your cell phone ringer off.  Ringing phones are irritating enough when you're sitting at your desk and pick up calls on the first blast of Rebecca Black's Friday. When you inevitably head off to a bathroom or a meeting and leave your phone at your desk, its incessant ringing makes everyone around you curse your existence.       
     Two days after the FCC announced it intends to hold a rare administrative hearing on AT&T's proposed purchase of T-Mobile USA, the folks at the Death Star have decided to pull their merger application to the regulator, at least until the end of its legal battle with the Dept. of Justice.      Additionally, AT&T has announced that it is setting aside $4 billion ($3 billion in cash and $1 billion in spectrum) to cover the penalties it would have to pay T-Mobile parent company Deutsche Telekom if the deal falls through.      Here's the explanation from Darth Vader's desk:    AT&T Inc. and Deutsche Telekom AG are continuing to pursue the sale of Deutsche Telekom's U.S. wireless assets to AT&T and are taking this step to facilitate the consideration of all options at the FCC and to focus their continuing efforts on obtaining antitrust clearance for the transaction from the Department of Justice either through the litigation pending... or alternate means.        The DOJ trial is currently slated to start in mid-February.  If the deal survives that process, AT&T says it will then revisit getting approval from the FCC.       Earlier this week, the FCC declared its intention to hold an administrative hearing, essentially a trial wherein AT&T would need to prove that the merger is in the public interest, at the conclusion of the DOJ trial.     
     Despite all your loved ones' best efforts to eat everything in sight, there's still a bunch of food remaining. Now is the time to strategically pack the food away for a lust-filled reunion at a date yet to be determined. (Probably 9 p.m. or so tonight).      The  Mayo Clinic  provides guidelines on how to make sure your grub will be good to eat the next time it crosses your path:      * Don't let meat, turkey and eggs sit at room temperature for longer than two hours.      * Avoid cold leftovers, and reheat your food until its internal temperature rises to 165 degrees.      * If there's any doubt as to whether food is still good, get rid of it.      Nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting are signs that you're suffering from food poisoning, in which case you should seek medical attention.       How long can you safely keep leftovers in the refrigerator?  [Mayo Clinic]    
     The holidays tend to whip up an over-spending frenzy in shoppers, getting them to abandon common sense in favor of spending their way into misery. To avoid making a string of bad decisions you'll regret when the credit card bills come in, you'll need careful planning and self-discipline.       The Jenny Pincher  offers some pointers that will keep you from losing it in the holiday hysteria:       * Map out a budget.  Put pen to paper -- or mouse to spreadsheet -- and develop a maximum spending level for everyone you feel obligated to give a gift. Ideally, your budget will present a worst-case financial scenario.       * Scout deals online before braving the mall.  There's no way to tell whether or not a deal at a store is good unless you have something to compare it to. Find the lowest prices for the stuff you're targeting online before heading out into the real world to see if you can beat those prices.       * Use your smartphone on the go.  If you stumble upon an item you didn't realize you needed to buy, pre-planning won't help you. That's when you pull out a smartphone to compare prices before you commit. The writer suggests  ShopSavvy  and  Amazon Price Check .      A bonus tip: If you're out shopping for others, don't pick up anything for yourself. The easiest way to blow your budget is to succumb to greed.       How to Shop this Holiday Season Without Blowing Your Budget  [The Jenny Pincher]    
     Over-the-counter painkillers seem harmless enough, but like any drug, they can cause plenty of pain of their own if overused. According to a study, popping too much acetaminophen over an extended period of time could cause liver failure and possibly lead to death.       USA Today  relays the results of a study, published in the British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, that says repeated overuse of acetaminophen -- branded as Tylenol -- can trigger an overdose.      The study says that patients who check in to hospitals feeling ill don't report an overdose, presumably because they don't realize that they've gone overboard with the drug. Victims of this sort of "staggered overdose" can suffer liver and brain issues.       "Over time the damage builds up, and the effect can be fatal," writes a researcher in a press release.        Too much acetaminophen over time may damage liver  [USA Today]    
     After everyone gorges themselves on their Thanksgiving mega-meals today, they'll loaf around and complain about how tired they feel. Inevitably, someone will try to sound smart and chime in that the tryptophan in the turkey is to blame for the lethargy. That gives you the opportunity to sound smarter by saying "Nope, it's actually the carbs."      According to the  L.A. Times , the American Chemical Society says turkey's tryptophan levels are lower than that of chicken and not high enough to cause drowsiness. The organization says it's carb overload that tends to slow down overeaters, causing the body to pump blood to the stomach, leaving the rest of you as a hapless football-watching lump of lazy.      Here's a video that explains the theory:               Thanksgiving: Busting the tryptophan myth wide open  [L.A. Times]    
      Clothing    Eddie Bauer : [Apparel] 30% off your order + Free Shipping w/ Coupon  GOBBLE    Lands' End : [Apparel] 30% off your order + Free Shipping w/ Coupon  DRUMSTICK and PIN 1121    Macy's : [Apparel] 15% off your entire order w/ Coupon  GOBBLE    Puma : [Shoes] Up to 75% off Sale with Additional 25% off and Free Shipping with Coupons  PUMASURVEY1011  and  PUMASHIP1011    Woman Within : [Womens] 30% Off Entire Purchase w/ Coupon  WW65006    Talbots : [Womens] 30% Off Entire Purchase w/ Coupon  FRIENDS             Computers and Electronics         CompUSA : [Electronics] CompUSA Black Friday Pre Sale: Samsung 19" LCD for $80 + $7 s&h, more         Entertainment   Walmart  [Entertainment] [Any Two LEGO Building Sets for $20]         Home   Best Buy  [Home] [Samsung SMH1611B Over-the-Range Microwave $99]   Lowes : [Tools] Maglite 2AA and 2D LED Flashlights for $10.97 and $14.97             Morning Deals are purely an informational service for the readers.   Consumerist receives nothing in exchange for their posting.      If you have a tip for Morning Deals, send it to tips@consumerist.com,   and be sure to put "morning deals" in the subject line.        
     A growing number of supermarkets, drugstores and other retailers are opening in-store clinics offering everything from flu shots to dental, vision and general medical care. And the people aren't shying away from using these services.       According to a study from the folks at Rand Corp, between 2007 and 2009, the rate of visits to retail clinics, while still small, experienced a nearly tenfold growth spurt, from .3 visits for 1,000 people to 2.7 visits per 1,000.       One reason, aside from the convenience of seeing a doctor in the same building you buy your groceries, is that, per the Rand study, these retail clinics cost consumers 30-40% less than going to a doctor's office, and 80% less expensive than going to the emergency room, which some people who lack health insurance go because they know it is unlikely they will be turned away.      "If the growth in retail clinic visits that we noted represents substitution for other sources of care, then the increase could lead to lower costs," said the study's lead author about what impact these clinics could have once the new health care reform laws are fully enacted. "However, if these visits represent new utilization or induced demand -- in other words, patients are seeking care when they would have otherwise stayed home -- then costs could increase... Answering these questions requires additional study."        Use of retail medical clinics is rising, study says  [Chicago Tribune]    
      Holiday travel plans change all the time, meaning lots of people will be spending lots of time on the phone trying to speak to a human being. And according to a new report, passengers on Virgin America should have something to occupy themselves with while waiting on hold, as the average wait time for the carrier is longer than 20 minutes.       In fact, according to the STELLAService study, not only is the 24:19 wait time to speak to a human being by far the longest among the 13 airlines in the survey, it's more than the next four-worst airlines' wait times combined!      And it wasn't just a few ridiculously long waits that threw off the study's numbers for Virgin America -- the survey shows that a whopping 73% of calls placed to the airline required longer than 30 minutes just to speak to a human being.       The airline is currently advising passengers that wait times will likely be longer while it transitions to a new reservation system, but... whoa.      On the opposite end of the spectrum, Hawaiian Airlines and Alaska Airlines took the top two spots with both carriers only having wait times in the 90 second range. The best of the country's major carriers was American, which clocked in at just over two minutes.       The worst of the majors was United -- more precisely, the Continental call center for United -- with an average wait time of 6:08. If it's any consolation, the United call center wasn't much better (average wait time -- 5:49), so it's not like either airline will definitely drag the other's phone banks into the mire.      See below for the full results:           Handling the Pre-Thanksgiving Travel Rush: STELLAService Tests Airlines on Call Support  [STELLAService blog]       
     It's been six months since  reporters in California first caught several Walmart stores offering insufficient refunds on items returned with gift receipts . And then they  confirmed two months ago that it was still going at Walmart's across the country . In spite of all this evidence that the nation's largest retailer needs to fix its gift receipt system, customers are still being screwed over when they try to return a gift.      Shellie Bailey-Shah, a reporter for KATU in Portland (the one on the left of the map) recently did some gift shopping at her nearby Walmart, Target and Fred Meyer stores.       When she went to return the purchases using gift receipts, the reporter had no problem getting the full amount back at both Target and Fred Meyer. Walmart was a very different story:    The cashier at the return counter tried repeatedly to scan each of the 10 gift receipts. She told Bailey-Shah that gift receipts "never work," and that the "system always has trouble with them," a statement Walmart has since disputed.      So instead, the clerk scanned the products' bar codes which brought up the sale price of each item. She told Bailey-Shah that she'd have to manually make adjustments, but somehow Bailey-Shah still didn't end up with all her money. She spent $92.69 but was refunded $79.21. Walmart pocketed $13.48.       This is the identical issue that was reported by the California reporters and confirmed by news stations in Texas and New Jersey earlier this year. And Walmart's response has been the same:    There appeared to be a scanning issue that required our associate to process the return differently. We take these matters seriously and apologize for any inconvenience... It's our expectation to refund the original purchase price when returning an item with a gift receipt... We are reviewing that process to look for ways to make it more efficient and reliable for our customers.       We think it's safe to say that this isn't a simple scanning issue but a serious systemic problem with Walmart's receipt-scanning process, one that the retailer doesn't seem to care much about fixing. Even if it is employee error at the stores where customers have been having this problem, that just means that Walmart is not training its staffers properly.      Thus, while we're not going to tell you to not do any holiday shopping at Walmart, we do advise that you keep the actual receipt for any gifts you purchase there, and if a gift's recipient is thinking about returning the present, you should probably make them aware of the problems that Walmart has been having with gift-receipt returns.                Walmart accused of shortchanging customers on gift receipt returns  [KATU.com]    
     When you've gotta go, you've gotta go. But in New York City, where public restrooms are at a minimum, the only place to go is usually a Starbucks. Since not everyone cares about cleanliness, that results in a dirty job for baristas. Some of those employees staged a mini revolt last week, locking customers out of bathrooms and adding "Employees Only" signs.      "I have personally cleaned up almost every humanly fluid and plenty that didn't seem human," the   New York Times   cites one employee's message on the StarbucksGossip site as saying.      Gross fluids or no, that stand against defiled and desecrated bathrooms is already over, after many media outlets expressed outrage at being kept out. After all, how are you supposed to camp out with your laptop all day using the free Wi-Fi if you can't empty your bladder from time to time?      After only a few days of complaints, the  NYT  says Starbucks management visited a few stores with locked bathrooms and told them to reopen them to customers.       And that is what we call going out with a fizzle.       Starbucks Mutiny Exposes New York's Reliance on Chain's Toilets  [New York Times]       
     With so many people lining up at the airport today and tomorrow to fly home to stuff their stomachs with, well... stuffing, one U.S. Senator has introduced two pieces of legislation aimed at reining in the checked bag fees charged by airlines.      Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana has come up with what she's called the Airline Passenger Basic Airline Standards to Improve Customer Satisfaction (BASICS) Act, which would require airlines to allow passengers one checked and one carry-on bag for free. The second piece of legislation that Landrieu intends to introduce is the Fair Airline Industry Revenue (FAIR) Act, which would impose additional fees on airlines that don't comply.      Explains the Senator, who chairs the Senate Subcommittee on Homeland Security:    When an airline advertises a flight, that is how much it should cost, plain and simple. Passengers should not be charged additional fees for checked or carry-on baggage, drinkable water or other reasonable requests....       Many airlines consider checking a bag not to be a right, but a privilege - and one with a hefty fee attached. The Airline Passenger BASICS Act will guarantee passengers one checked bag without the financial burden of paying a fee, or the headache of trying to fit everything into a carry-on       It will be interesting to see if this legislation actually has some legs or if it will just go around and round, like some unclaimed luggage on the carousel.     
     If you're traveling in Massachusetts today on a certain part of the turnpike, you'll have one less toll to pay. Online shoe and clothing retailer Zappos has teamed up with the state's Department of Transportation to pay tolls on a section of road from 5-7 p.m. today.      The toll-free area will exist in both directions tonight at the Allston/Brighton toll plaza, saving drivers $1.50, says Boston's  WWLP .       The Massachusetts DOT says around 16,000 vehicles traveled through that area last year on the same day. Zappos is also covering the cost of all signs announcing the tolls.      "By teaming up with Zappos, it is my hope that we can make drivers a little less stressed about their commute during the holiday," DOT Secretary and CEO Richard Davey said.      Now how's about the rest of the country, Zappos?        *Thanks to Consumerist reader Jonathan T. for the tip!        Zappos to pay for some Turnpike tolls  [WWLP]    
     Back in July, we discussed several reasons that  using only cash  for purchases makes financial sense. Among the pluses were a lower risk of identity theft and simpler budgeting prospects.       Deliver Away Debt  checks in with another reason to stick with paper: Since cash is so physically difficult to part with, it makes you rethink your shopping mentality, even for staples. For instance, you may start opting for small-sized drinks rather than larges, or drifting toward generic products rather than brand names in order to make your cash stretch farther. You might even dream up ways to do without certain items or habits.      That said, giving up the convenience of cards is easier said than done. The writer is embarking on a 30-day cash-only experiment and promises to report back with the results.       Cash is King, Isn't It?  [Deliver Away Debt]    
     Though you  might not see super-deep discounts on the best-reviewed TVs this Black Friday , some experts are predicting that the average price of LCD TV sets will sink to an all-time low during the annual post-Thanksgiving buying bonanza.      Because the market is saturated by flat-screen HDTV sets, says  CNNMoney , there aren't as many people out there who still want to buy new TVs. Combine that with the economic downturn and shoppers knowing when to nab items at their lowest prices, and manufacturers are dropping their prices to boost sales.      "It's a self-fulfilling prophecy," said Paul Gagnon, director of TV research at DisplaySearch. "But this year, softer demand is really taking a toll. Set makers' profitability is pretty terrible right now, so there's lots of pressure to have a good holiday."      Predictions show some 32-inch LCD TVs going for as low as $200, with 60-inch sets going for as low as $600. Plasma screens are already more expensive, so those discounts won't be as steep as the LCD sets.      Low prices and less TVs sitting on warehouse shelves could also signal your choice being out of stock much faster than before as well, so shop early if you have a particular set you fancy.       Black Friday LCD TV prices will hit all-time lows  [CNNMoney]    
    With a decline of 4.43% leading up to tomorrow's holiday, 2011 will go down as the worst Thanksgiving week ever for the S&amp;P 500 (since the government officially designated Thanksgiving as the fourth Thursday of November in 1941).  Below we highlight the prior years where the S&amp;P 500 was down 2% or more for the week leading up to Thanksgiving.  If you're looking for something to be positive about, at least there's hope for an up day on Friday.  On the Friday following the worst Thanksgiving weeks listed below, the S&amp;P has posted gains five out of seven times for an average one-day change of +0.74%.  Not bad.    Happy Thanksgiving from Bespoke!  If you're looking to catch up on this crazy market over the Thanksgiving holiday, subscribe to Bespoke Premium today.  Visit  www.bespokepremium.com  to learn more.                Subscribe to      Bespoke Premium      to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.        
    As shown below, India's SENSEX (the main stock market index in India) has completely fallen out of bed over the past few weeks.  Since gapping sharply higher on October 27th, the index is down 12.33%.  Today the SENSEX experienced a major breakdown as it collapsed below key support levels that were formed by the index's August and early October lows.  This breakdown has many saying "Look out belooooooow!"               Subscribe to        Bespoke Premium        to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.        
    It's not as if investors don't already have enough on their plates to worry about, but the list just keeps getting longer.  Overnight, the flash reading for Chinese Manufacturing PMI for November from HSBC dropped to 48.0, which represents the lowest reading since March 2009.  Somebody ring the bell quick before the bulls have nothing to be thankful for!               Subscribe to      Bespoke Premium      to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.        
    In what is traditionally one of the stronger weeks of the year for equities, this year the S&amp;P 500 has been down every day of the week so far.  Going back to 1941 when Thanksgiving was officially designated the fourth Thursday of November, 2011 will go down as the eighth year where the S&amp;P 500 was down all three days of the week leading up to Thanksgiving.  The last time this occurred was back in 1994, and before that you have to go all the way back to 1964!    Based on the experience of the prior years, the average return on Black Friday was a decline of 0.07%.  Looking out at the rest of the year, in those prior seven years, the S&amp;P 500 averaged a return of +2.68% with negative returns only once.  This year, though, with all the problems going on in Europe, bulls are beginning wonder if its even too much for Santa to handle.               Subscribe to        Bespoke Premium        to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.        
    For the last several weeks, investors have been closely watching the spreads on debt of various EU countries relative to Germany, which has been largely considered to be the bedrock of Europe.  One question that hasn't been asked, however, is what happens if (when) German yields start to come unanchored?    We may have an answer to that question sooner than most would have expected.  In the chart below we compare the spreads on German 10-year Bunds relative to 10-year US Treasuries.  For much of the last several months, German Bunds have been yielding less than US treasuries.  After today's failed auction in Germany, though, German 10-year Bunds are yielding 13 basis more than 10-year US Treasuries, which is a level that hasn't been seen since May 2009.  Looked at in a historical context, current levels are hardly anything to panic about, but as we have seen with other countries in recent weeks, the spike in spreads seems to come all at once, and once it occurs, it is usually too late.               Subscribe to      Bespoke Premium      to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.        
    Below we provide our one-year trading range charts for the S&amp;P 500 and its ten sectors.  In each chart, the blue shading represents the sector's "normal" trading range, which is between one standard deviation above and below the 50-day moving average (the white line).  The red zone represents between one and two standard deviations above the 50-day, while the green zone represents between one and two standard deviations below the 50-day.  Moves into or above the red zone are considered overbought, while moves into or below the green zone are considered oversold.    While the S&amp;P 500 has pulled back more than 8% since its intraday high on October 27th, it's still trading within its "normal" trading range.  To get to oversold, the index needs to fall another 2.11%.  For bears that are hoping for farther declines, there is still quite a bit of downside room to run before an oversold bounce would be expected.           The Financial sector continues to look the worst from a technical perspective.  The sector remains in a long-term downtrend, and it has once again moved to the bottom of its normal trading range.  A few more days of declines and the sector will be right back to its lows for the year.  Most sectors are trading in either sideways or downtrend patterns.  The Utilities sector is the only one that is trading in a long-term uptrend, but it has gotten hit  especially   hard  in recent weeks.       To receive and analyze these charts on a regular basis, sign up for a        Bespoke Premium        membership today.  Please call 914-315-1248 with any questions.                            
    As shown below, the Internet HOLDRs Trust (HHH) that is made up of Internet stocks has moved into extreme oversold territory.  It is currently trading more than two standard deviations below its 50-day moving average, which is a level it has only traded at one other time over the last year.  Back in August it got this oversold and quickly bounced back.           From our  ETF Trends  report available to  Bespoke Premium  members on a daily basis, below is a list of the equity group ETFs that we regularly track.  As shown, HHH is currently trading the farthest below its 50-day moving average out of all the ETFs listed at -9.49%.  Clearly the Internet group has been dragging the overall market.           Below are the current stocks that make up HHH.  For each stock, we provide its year-to-date change as well as its change since the market made its most recent high on 11/11/11.  As shown, Amazon.com (AMZN) has led the ETF lower since 11/11 with a decline of 11.52%.  Priceline.com (PCLN) ranks second with a decline of 9.80%, followed closely by Earthlink (ELNK) at -9.74%.  AOL, E*Trade (ETFC), TD Ameritrade (AMTD), and eBay (EBAY) are all down more than 8% as well.                     Subscribe to        Bespoke Premium        to receive more in-depth research from Bespoke.         
    As of yesterday's close, the S&amp;P 500 and all ten of its sectors were trading back below their 50-day moving averages.  As shown below, the Telecom sector is currently the only one trading in oversold territory (more than one standard deviation below its 50-day), but there will likely be quite a few more after today's open since futures are pointed lower once again.  Financials, Utilities and Health Care are the next closest to oversold.  Energy, Industrials and Consumer Staples are the closest to their 50-days.                    
    Yesterday we  asked  Bespoke readers which level they thought the Dow would reach first -- 11,000 or 12,000.  At the time, the Dow was trading right in between the two levels at 11,500.     As shown below, 59% of the 511 participants said the index is heading down to 11,000, while 41% said it's heading back up to 12,000.  At least for now, bearish sentiment rules, which is a bullish sign if you're a contrarian.                    
    After four straight days of declines for the S&amp;P 500, the percentage of stocks in the index that are currently trading above their 50-day moving averages stands at 41%.  Breadth reached extreme levels during the October rally that really energized the bulls.  The recent move down to 41% is so far being treated as a simple pullback from overbought levels.  A move down below 25% would certainly raise some eyebrows, however.             Just three S&amp;P 500 sectors currently have 50% or more of their stocks trading above their 50-days.  Fortunately they're all cyclical in nature -- Industrials (52%), Consumer Discretionary (52%) and Energy (40%).  The non-cyclicals have really seen breadth take a hit during the current market pullback.  Telecom, Utilities and Health Care have three of the four weakest breadth readings at the moment.  Typically the cyclical sectors will take the biggest hits to breadth during market pullbacks, while non-cyclicals will hold up well.  This hasn't been the case during the current decline, however.                                    
 